chla7134041_1971_1
7134041_8300_001
Cornell recommendations for commercial floriculture crops: Volume 1977, Part 1
New York State College of Agriculture and Life Sciences.
New York State College of Agriculture and Life Sciences, Cornell University.
Ithaca, N.Y. :
January, 1977
START OF PAGES
vol_issue_text = ["Volume 1977", "Part 1"]
pages = 60
DIV1

START OF DIV1 PAGES

Title Page
0001
00000001.jpg

     
     56     Vp3     VS7     Q~y-jNew York State College of Agriculture and Life Sciences,     i  /  a Statutory College of the State University, Cornell University     it;-: ac     Cornell Recommendations for Commercial Floriculture Crops     Part I:    Cultural Practices and Production Programs     $1.00     
    
chla7134041_1971_1_1

END OF IMAGE INFO
1
0002
00000002.jpg

     
     CONTENTS     Introduction    . . .*........................      3     How to use this publication..................      3     How is your business image?.................      4     General recommendations for culture of crops   .....      5     Varieties............................      5*     Light...............................      5     Temperature and relative humidity.......... .      7     Water   .......................,......    10     Soils and fertilizers......................    12     Soil Sterilization and fumigation............    18     Carbon dioxide........................    18     Air pollution..........................    20     Wood preservatives for use in plant-growing     operations..........................    22     Plant growth regulators...................    22     Weed control   .........................    23     Pest and disease control..................    23     Postharvest handling of cut flowers and     potted plants........................    23     The metric system  ......................    24     Cultural recommendations for specific crops   ......    25     African violet.........................    25     Annuals and bedding plants................    26     Aster...............................    27     Azalea..............................    28     Bedding plants........................    29     Begonia.............................    29     Bulb Crops...........................    30     Calceolaria...........................    32     Calla...............................    33     Carnation............................    33     Chrysanthemum   .......................    35     Cineraria   ............................    37     Clerodendrum.........................    37     Cyclamen............................    38     Delphinium   ..........................    40     Foliage plants.........................    40     Freesia..............................    41     Gardenia   ............................    41     Geranium . . ...................,......    41     Gladiolus............................    43     Gloxinia.............................    43     Hydrangea...........................    44     Kalanchoe   ...........................    46     Lily............................____    46     Orchid..............................    49     Pansy   ..............................    50     Poinsettia............................    50     Rose...............................    54     Snapdragon..........................    55     Stephanotis..........................    56     Stock..............................    56     Poison Control Centers..............back cover     Permission ts granted to reprint material from this publication provided that credit is given this source. Material may not be used for or in product and service advertising or promotional materials to imply the endorsement of Cornell University.     Cornell Recommendations for Commercial Floriculture Crops, Part I: Cultural Practices and Production Programs and its companion publication, Part If: Disease, Pest, and Weed Control are prepared by Arthur Bing, James W. Boodley, Carl F. Gortzig, Robert W. Langhans, and John G. Seelcy, Department of Floriculture and Ornamental Horticulture; R.K. Horst and C.E. Williamson, Department of Plant Pathology; Robert G. Heigeten, Department of Entomology; Donald R. Price, Department of Agricultural Engineering; and George Johnson, USDA at Cornell University USDA Ornamentals Research Laboratory, Farmingdale, Long Island, New York; and with the assistance of Cooperative Extension agents in programs in commercial floriculture.     Names of Pesticides and Other Commercial Products     To avoid confusion, common names of pesticides are used when approved for use on the label by the Pesticides Regulation Division of Environmental Protection Agency (EPA). Otherwise trade names are used because they also appear on the label. No endorsement of pesticides or other named products is intended nor is criticism of unnamed products implied.     Information on first aid for pesticide poisoning is given in Cornell Recommendations for Com mere ml Floriculture Crops, Part II: Disease, Pest, and Weed Control Poison Control Centers are listed on the back covers of this publication and Part II.     Revised April 1974 Reprinted with slight revision January 1977     2     
    
chla7134041_1971_1_2

END OF IMAGE INFO
2
0005
00000005.jpg

     
     VARIETIES- LIGHT     Take a few minutes periodically to look closely at your firm\'s public image. Examine your property from all sides. ft   Here are but a few important items to look for:     Is your property generally neat and attractive?     Are unsightly areas and operations screened with plantings or fences?     Are weeds controlled or mowed in work yards, vacant areas, and driveways?     Are potential nuisances to neighbors kept at a ^    minimum?     VARIETIES AND CULTIVARS     The selection of crop varieties and cultivars is one of the most important decisions a manager will make as he plans his production program, for his selection determines the cultural practices he must use as well as the nature of product he will offer in the market. ^ In most flower crops the manager has an extremely wide ^ assortment of varieties from which to select. Considerations in making the selection of a variety or cultivar are:       Market  acceptance of its  color, type, and  keeping quality       Production facilities and skills to meet its cultural requirements       Whether it is to be grown for potted plant or cut flower production       Time of year it is to be programmed       Insect and disease resistance       Ease of handling and shipping after harvest     The wide assortment of varieties and the diversity of their cultural requirements make it impossible to provide recommendations for each. But recommendations are ft given for crops like Easter lilies in which commercial ^ varieties are limited and cultural requirements differ among them. The representative of your horticultural supply firm is well qualified to advise you on varieties of other crops for specific production programs.     LIGHT     Since both intensity and duration of light affect plant ftp growth, each must be considered in the management of ^ crop environment. Plants use light energy in photosynthesis, the process by which carbohydrates for growth are     Are buildings well painted and attractive?     Are public areas landscaped with low-maintenance yet attractive plantings?     Are bedding plants and other floriculture products used to enhance your business property?     Is your property properly identified with tasteful, effective signs?     Are parking facilities adequate, well labeled, and surfaced to prevent dust and mud?     produced. Day length  (photoperiod) affects  flower bud initiation and development.     Photosynthesis     The goal of the plant grower is to provide an environment in which a maximum rate of photosynthesis occurs. Obviously, this is more difficult to achieve from October through early March when both intensity and day length are less. Light intensity at Ithaca, New York, drops from a maximum in summer of 10,000 footcandles to 2000 or less in winter. Intensity is somewhat greater on Long Island. To get all available light intensity in winter:       Clean inside and outside surfaces of greenhouse glass or plastic.       Remove shading compounds from the glass and take down cloth shading stretched inside by mid- to late August.       Space crops adequately.       Use white paint, white polyethylene or aluminum paper on dark interior greenhouse walls to reflect light onto the crops. Paint greenhouse bars regularly.       Carefully control temperature, water, and nutrients on the basis of light conditions.     Fluorescent lamps can be used to supplement low winter light intensity for seedlings, foliage plants, and other small plants. Research to find other ways of supplementing winter light intensity is underway. High intensity discharge (HID) lamps are being studied for this purpose. Growers are using them on a limited scale in the production of roses and potted mums. Your Cooperative Extension agent can provide progress reports on this work.     Other kinds of problems may arise from March through early October, the period of greater light intensity; heat     GENERAL RECOMMENDATIONS FOR CULTURE OF CROPS     5     
    
chla7134041_1971_1_5

END OF IMAGE INFO
5
0006
00000006.jpg

     
     LIGHT     Research has shown high intensity discharge (HID) lamps to be an effective supplemental light source for roses and certain other crops during those months when natural light intensity is low.     resulting lr+]m high light intensity can injure crops, reduce growth, and interfere with flower bud development. Greenhouse ventil.ition ,md cooling are important here. Some plants i.in tolerate high light intensity; but otl .uih as begonias, orchids, African violets, and foliage plants, cannot. Bright light intensity may "bum" large open bl.               and.ml chrysanthemum.     The term shade refers to materials used to reduce light intensity: shading compound, cheesecloth, plastic netting. Black doth is used to shorten day length, not to reduce light mtensn     Application of shade to reduce light intensity is I very critical operation. While shading lowers an and plant temperature and thus reduces water loss from the plants, n also reduces light for photosynthesis. It takes experience and good judgment to adjust shading to growing methods and time                 and still achieve maximum sunlight for     the conditions. As a general rule, shading should be removed by mid- to late August. Inexpensive light meters are better than the e]              \'tcrmining light intensity. \\\']ui     Coop[               (tension tgem [ an ni\\c \\ i]u loun es.      ling equipment may lessen the need for shading. Kxpcricnce with cooling is the best way to determine your shading requirements.     can be grown entirely under artificial light: Joxmia.  lerlain   foliage  plants,  bulbous v (except iris), and azalea   Keinmmcndations are given under specific crops.     Bud Initiation and Development     \'iiral day length at Ithaca                 ]rk, which is 42%i     degrees north latitude, varies from 16Vi hours on June 21     ]     JAN   FEB MAR APR MAY JUNE JULY AUG SEPT OCT NOV DEC     Figure 1. Day-length curve for Ithaca, New York (lat 421/20 N) including civil twilight.     to lO\'A hours, including civil twilight, on December 21 (see figure 1). Long Island, which is slightly farther south, does not have as great maximum or as short minimum day length as Ithaca. Depending on the flower crop, day length may influence flower bud initiation and development, height, branching habit, number of leaves, and other characteristics and processes.     By knowing the photoperiodic response of crops such as chrysanthemums, poinsettias, snapdragons, and others, a grower can control date of bloom. Detailed information on procedures, which vary with crop, variety, latitude, and season, is available from suppliers and your Cooperative Extension agent; but the following information is applicable to photoperiod manipulation on all crops.     To lengthen photoperiod, apply artificial light during the night. For most crops the intensity should be at least ID footcandlei at the top of the plant. For lighting entire greenhouses or outdoor areas, provide 1V* to 1 xh watts per square foot including benches and walks. Floodlights or string of lights can be used.     For single benches 3Vi to 4 feet wide, use either 60-watt ini .iridescent lamps in clean reflectors, 4 feet apart and 3 feet above the tops of the plants, or 100-watt lamps in clean reflectors, 6 feet apart and 4 to 5 feet above the tops of the plants. For 2 adjacent benches 3\'/2 to 4 feet wide, place over the aisle one line of 100-watt lamps with reflec-ton (j feet apart and 4 to 5 feet above the tops ol iln plants. Most growers prefer to mount the lamps high jh enough at the beginning to avoid raising them as crops ^* grow. Measure intensity at the tops of plants farthest from the light to be sure you are providing the minimum lit footcandles.     Although it is customary to use the term "day length," it is actually the dark period that has the more important effect. Artificial light  is applied near the middle of the _ night   to break  the  long dark  period  into 2 short ones.*J thereby producing a "long-day" effect. Four hours of light arc used from 10 P.M. to 2 A.M.     ;.     
    
chla7134041_1971_1_6

END OF IMAGE INFO
6
0007
00000007.jpg

     
     TEMPERATURE     Flash or cyclic lighting to simulate a long-day effect has been used with varying success. Lights are on only 10 to 20 percent of the normal lighting period, a minimal application that allows little room for such errors as equipment failure, reduced voltage, poor temperature control, improper spacing of lamps, low intensity, and, perhaps tin-most important, variety response. Make limited trial] to gain experience.     To shorten photoperiod, completelv darken the plant with black sateen cloth or black polyethylene plastic sheeting for a period sufficient to give the desired day length. This is generally from 5 P.M. at the end of one work day to 8 A.M. at the beginning of the next. Cloth is available from horticultural suppliers. Black cloth wears and should be checked periodically to insure that it continues to exclude sufficient light to control photoperiod.     TEMPERATURE AND RELATIVE HUMIDITY     Outdoor temperature and weather conditions smli u wind and precipitation influence the greenhouse operator\'s actions through their direct effect on greenhouse heating, ventilation, pest control, and other practices. Familiarity with local weather signs helps forecast short-range changes. Official weather information can be obtained from the nearest National Weather Service office.     Temperature     Temperature influences rate of plant growth, date of flowering, and, ultimately, plant and keeping quality. In some plants, it controls flowering. The temperature requirements of each crop must be understood to effectively program production.     Unless otherwise specified, temperatures given in recommendations are night temperatures in degrees Fahren-     Place thermometers at plant height to be sure the crop is grown at the correct temperature.     heit (0F). Day temperatures are usu.ilK maintained 10 degrees higher than night temper.hums on cloudy d.i\\s and 15 degrees higher than night temperatures on bright days. Measure greenhouse temperatures at plant level. Check thermometers   foi   SCCUraC)    ii   lent   twuc   I   year.   1\'l.n e     them in cracked ice i[]i about 15 minutes; it they do not read 320F, replace them. Hut be sure to check new ones m the same manner.     Aspirated Thermostats     \\. i urate temperature control in the greenhouse can be     ..hi.uncd   only   Willi  a   thermostat   housed   in  an  atpil box. The device contains | small I.in whn h ili.iws  in a[ n.ss     the shielded thermostat, thereby speeding the response mm ..I the thermostat to temperature changes in the greenhouse. Quickei response time means more accurate temperatun control, less overheating oi the greenhouse, and, consequently, less fuel consumption Fuel savings jusi11\\ the ...si i.l the equipment. Figure 2 shows ] [ 1 i.i gram ol an aspirated i].]v foi a thermostat.     War*     Two views of an aspirated thermostat similar to that diagrammed in figure 2. At the left, the device is shown in operation with the door closed. At the right, the door is open to show the thermostat inside. The instrument setting on top of the box is a thermograph which records temperatures on a 24-hour basis. Although an extremely useful aid to the grower, giving actual temperatures during a time period, the thermograph is not an essential part of an aspirated thermostat.     
    
chla7134041_1971_1_7

END OF IMAGE INFO
7
0008
00000008.jpg

     
     GREENHOUSE HEATING FUEL CONSERVATION - RELATIVE HUMIDITY     APPROX. y2" x 12" SLOT COVERED WITH PLASTIC OR GLASS     \\" MINIMUM     EXHAUST END     Figure 2. Plans for aspirated box using a 1/70 hp, 1520 rpm motor with a 6-inch blade. By use of telescopic pipes and pins the box can be adjusted to any height as required by the crop. (After Holley and Goldsberry, Roses, J.W. Mastalerz and R.W. Langhans, eds., published by Pa. Flower Growers, N.Y.S. Flower Growers, Inc., and Roses, Inc., 1969, p. 112.)     Automatic heating, cooling, and air-distribution equipment can provide precise control of greenhouse temperatures. Thermostats and other controls should be inspected every 6 months. Accurate control can mean fuel and electricity economies.     Greenhouse Heating Fuel Conservation     With heating fuel of all types in short supply, growers should take all possible steps to ensure maximum greenhouse heating efficiency. These steps will conserve fuel and reduce your heating costs through increased heating efficiency.     Tight houses are a must. Glasshouses without bar caps or with slipped or cracked lights are real heat losers.     Polyethylene or fiberglass on the inside gable ends of glasshouses produces a thermopane effect. Do not line roofs of glasshouses with polyethylene; you may encounter dangerous snow load problems.     Plastic houses should have a double layer of film. Recorded fuel savings up to 40 percent have been made between single and double layer plastic houses.     Steam or hot water pipes should be leak-free to avoid the loss of many pounds of steam or gallons of hot water.     Reflect the heat from the pipes back into the greenhouse with aluminum refiectorized tarpaper hanging between the pipe and the wail. Be sure to leave an air space     for circulation between the tarpaper and the wall, or else the walls may freeze and crack.     Check the boiler, burner, and backup systems to make sure they are operating at peak efficiency.     Check all automatic valves for satisfactory operation. If automatic valves are not used, consult your heating engineer to determine the cost of installation versus potential savings in fuel.     Thermostats need constant checking for accuracy and proper operation. Thermostats placed in aspirated boxes respond more quickly to temperature changes, thereby achieving greater efficiency. See "Aspirated Thermostats," page 7.     Inspect regularly, and when necessary, replace or repair the insulation on the boilers and all pipes leading to the glasshouses.     Black cloth pulled at night helps reduce the heat loss. It not only reduces the critical heating area, but also reduces radiation losses to the sky. Automatic black cloth systems are labor-efficient.     Relative Humidity     Any consideration of temperature control in the greenhouse is inadequate without a review of the relationship of temperature to the moisture content of the greenhouse atmosphere.     8     
    
chla7134041_1971_1_8

END OF IMAGE INFO
8
0009
00000009.jpg

     
     RELATIVE HUMIDITY     The fan and tube system for precise control of temperature and humidity is now standard for winter ventilation. At left are the outside fans which exhaust humid greenhouse air. At right are the inflated tubes through which cold outside air is drawn and distributed. The cold air is mixed and warmed as it drops from tube to plant level. Fans can be placed along the sides of the greenhouse as shown or in the ends.     the same volume of .u+ contains approximate!) I pints 01 I pounds ol water, I times .is much .is at previous con ditions. II only heat is added to the original volume ol ail to raise the temperature From 10 1- to 80\' l . the relative humidity would dei line to less than 20 percent, [therefore, u iv possible i+\' make majoi adjustments in relative humid u\\ h\\ mixing 2 sources of aii at different relative humidi ties "i i]\\ i hanging the temperatun     These baaii principles are used to modify greenhouse relativi humidity, I brought ventilation, addition "l outside ill hi ,ni even at the same temperature, causes a reduction in the relative humidity. II driei aii is not available, heating the greenhouse ait and ventilating to maintain the desired temperature reduce [ [ lative humidity I vi n on s rainy day, the cool, moist outdoot aii is useful in reducing gi house relative humidity through aii exchange. In all cases, note thai ventilation (air ex[ hangc) is required.     Outside .in M-lildm has the same temperature and rela live humidity as aii in the greenhouse. A critical situation can develop when the humidity is high and the outside tc mperature is the same .is the desired greenhouse tempi rs hire. Should tins situation exist, adding some heat to the     iihouse and ventilating will reduce the relative humidity with only .i slight incn ism in thi                           iture, IIhs situation is common in spring and fall. Heating sys terns should be in operation from early Septembei to well     May so that heat is available fot this use, Manipulation i.t heal  and ventilation is the ke)  tool the greenhouse     itoi has at Ins i ommand to prevent serious and i ostiy losses from di               jim m^ high humidity oi condi     water foi development                                    tension     has more information on greenhouse humidity and temperature              ment.   \\n exi elfa               m e is 71 house  Climmtt  Control Handbook available from Acme nut  Manufacturing Corporation,  Muskcgee, Oklahoma 11 nil.     An alternative ventilation technique is the installation of the fan directly in the polyethylene tube.     Failure to control humidity may result in condensation of water on crop foliage, an ideal situation foi infei tion by Botrytis, powdery mildew, and othei diseases.     A term used to express moisture content ol the aii is relative humidity.   An   with a high relative humidity  is considered wet; that  with a low relative humidity, dry. luo facts make manipulation ol relative humidity simple. First, moisture in the aii foi the most part is in  i state (water vapor) which disperses very rapidly through the air.  Ilns enables the mixing ol "wet"and "dry"aii to qui* kl\\    i hieve a new or different equilibrium ol moisture content. Second, the capacity  ol aii to hold watei i increases with an increase in temperature. For example, ail at   in I.   with   75   percent  relative  humidity,  contains approximately  1  pint or 1 pound of water for e.n h cubic feel (.i loom volume of 1" feet wide x 33.6 feet long \\ Ml feet high). At 800 F and 75 percent relative humiditv .     +i     
    
chla7134041_1971_1_9

END OF IMAGE INFO
9
0010
00000010.jpg

     
     WATER     Table 1.    Winter heating design temperatures in common use in New York State     ]u\'n temperature     \\ll]un]                                                                             ID     Binghamton                                                                    HI     Buffalo                                                                        _    5 Canton     I thata                                                                              15     New York and Long Island                                              0     Oswego                                                                            Ml Rochester     use                                                                          in     Outdoor temperature is onrj oneol many factors which musi               lidered  in  designing .1  greenhouse  heating     n temperature can be several degrees higher than the lowest  temperature 1             irded. li is uneco-     nomical to iif]ii;n foi  the lowest temperature since it is likely to                                    hort durations only. Winter     1 lemperatun               u York State are given in table     I.  Dc             nperatures h]r other areas can be obtained     from lot al National Weathei Service records..     WATER     Plants must have an adequate suppl) ol watei available     at   all  nmes  ii  il              to respond  favorably  to othet     pvironmcnl ami yield maximum quality.     Frequency of Watering     queue)   ol   watering  required varies depending on man\\                                  p development, amount ol sun-     light, an movement, temperature, soil mixture, ami drain-\\ thorough irrigation i[]i greenhouse crops generally the application id at leas) 2 ijuaiis ol water per squan             ol  bench area.  Experienced observation ol     nvironmeni proves helplul in deter-mining when to appr) water.     Water Quality     Mfcta  quality   should be carefully  checked when up-.,  n[;                        rally, New   York State ground     supplk                                              ttion   ol   llower     IS.   Municipal   wain   supplies whuh  have been  chlorinated   are    al                                               plants.    Other    than n sod pll. hard water has no harmful     1  on plants, watei thai I               I through  1     1h.1i employs s.dt in the process should n[     n dlv   .1  wai[ i  siipplv   is high in soluble s.ills.     and continued im ol il on ll",                                blems.     i igation also should be ire that then salts [onteni il   qualit)   have   noi   , i              Such   chai     seriousl)                                           "ls- Y01,     this purpoS4     I ible 1 li]ts the b                                   irious l[                lubk s.dis     m watei                                                                       ippK     Table 2.     Readings and interpretations of soluble salts in water supply     SoiU\'bridgt readings K x 10-iSuitability for irrigation     Below 25Excellent     25 - 60Good     60- 150Fair     Above 150Poor     SOURCE: O.YV. Davidson, Water -  its role in greenhouse crop production, Minnesota State Florists\' Bulletin KApril 1961 ):7 - 11.     tested tor other than soluble salts. I he continued appli-.11 ol sail on highways lor snow-melting purposes and Othei sources ol environmental pollution have resulted in isively high levels ol sodium and certain minor elements in some wells and ponds used as watei supplies. Your Cooperative I xtension agent has the names ol laboratories thai perform tesis lor these substances.     Automatic Watering     Automata watering methods are recommended lor all crops. It is difficult to justify watering by hand in this era ol high laboi costs and mechanization. Automation ol watering requires consideration of the following: water volume required, watei pressure necessary, present and required pipe sizes, opportunities for incorporating fertilizer proportioner equipment in the system, and possible, changes that will be required in the present water system. Unci descriptions ol automatic watering systems currently available follow. Details ol costs and installation pro-c edmes can be obtained from your horticultural supplier oi ( cooperative Extension agent.     Automatic Watering Systems for Cut Flower Crops     Perimeter watering. The perimeter watering system ((laics, Greco, etc.) consists of a rigid plastic pipe mounted on  the perimctci   ol   the bench with nozzles angled and     The Gates System, one of several perimeter watering sys terns for cut flower crops.     I()     
    
chla7134041_1971_1_10

END OF IMAGE INFO
10
0011
00000011.jpg

     
     WATER     Gro-hose,   one  of  several   polyethylene  tubing  watering systems for cut flower crops.     spaced approximately 2 feet apart to provide complete coverage. I his system applies water rapidly. It may damage small seedlings and i uttings.     Polyethylene tubing. Several bench-watering systems utilize polyethylene tubing. Some systems (Gro-hose, Elmei .I, ci[.) i onsist of black polyethylene tubing perfoi ated with small holes. To ensure uniform distribution ol the water, 8 lengths ol tubing are installed on a 1-foot bench aftei planting, [hey are placed directly on the soil surface between plant rows. The systems are inexpensive and easily  installed. Other systems (Chapin, etc.) utilize     ffe   various  arrangements ol   headers and lateral lines ol  poly-     ^^  ethylene tubing.     Automatic Watering Systems for Potted Plants     Plastic tube pot-watering system. The Chapin Watet matic Systems and the Stuppy System are the majoi automatic watering equipment used by growers of potted plants. Basically, the systems consist ol a rigid polyvinyl-pipe main which carries the water to numerous plastic tubes ol   1/8" 01   less diameter "spaghetti." Depending on     the size ol the pot, one or more tulies are placed in it. A small weight holds the tube m place, \\iiiom.iin controls an available foi the system. It is easy to install and is an efficient way ol quickly irrigating large numbers ol puis. The capillary bench, inexpensive and nearly maintenance free, uses capillary action to distribute water to the  plains. Watering is almost constant. A bench with I inch sides and watci outlets foi every 2 oi 3 square feel is Idled with fine sand. Pots, plastii ot peat and usually 6 inches oi less in diameter, are placed on the sand. Some growers     have   had  sir cess   with   laigri   si/e  pots.   I he sand  is salui     aied sevei.d times a day as needed. Drainage materials stu h as gravel or broken crockery should not be used in the pots. Plants will not root into sand. A new material, Dorix,      a web oi   mat  ol  inmped svntheli.   fibers, has been devel A as a substitute loi s.md. Cornell research has shown the mat to he comparable with s.md when  apillary     iftg is used lor the pi oilm lion ol I, mi h polled I hi\\ s.mlhe     The Chapin Watermatic System, above, on a crop of potted chrysanthemums. The large polyethylene line carries water to the 1/8-inch tubes ("spaghetti") which supply individual pots. The system is also used to distribute water to the sand in capillary benches. Below, a lead weight holds the "spaghetti" in place.     mums. Dorix mats havi             lexibility                 to install     am!   remove,   an   light   in   weight,   and   i  in   In    .......   Iii     almost  any  situation, Some  growers report good results wiih I    2 inches of fiberglass use             nd substitute.     l I     
    
chla7134041_1971_1_11

END OF IMAGE INFO
11
0012
00000012.jpg

     
     SOILS AND FERTILIZERS     As with all new cultural practices, growers switching from hand to automatic watering are encouraged to install a new system on a limited basis first, to gain experience with it before converting to it on a large scale.     Surfactants     Surfactants, or welting agents, increase the ease of wetting peat m4;ss and mixes high in organic matter such as peat-lite. They also aid in wetting of mixes during the growth of the crop. A small quantity added to water will provide more uniform distribution and better penetration ot applied water. Several products on the market that have been tested and, when used at the recommended rates, are nontoxic to plants are listed in table 3.     An effective method for applying these surfactants is to blend 3 oz of the wetting agent into 1 qt of vermiculite and mix this amount of vermiculite with 1 cu yd of peat-lite mix. Granular formulations are also available.     If used as a liquid, dilute the 3 oz in 5 to 10 gal of water and add to 1 cu yd of mix. For use with dry mixes after preparation, use a drench of 1 pt surfactant per 100 gal water applied, to 1 cu yd of peat-lite mix. For small amounts of peat-lite, this rate converts to 1 tsp surfactant per gal water.     Table 3.    Trade name, source, and rate of use for wetting agents recommended for the peat-lite mixes     Chemical     Source     Activity     %     Fluid     oz / cu yd     of mix     Aqua Gro     Ethomid 0/15     Cafac Pfc 510     Aquatrols Corp. of America        100     Box 385     DeUir. New Jersey 08110     3*     Armour Ind. Chemical Co. 401 North Wabash Avenue Chicago, Illinois     General Aniline k Film Co. 104 West 51st Sireet New York, New York     Halko CPU 123      C.P. Hall Company     51 15 Wcsf 651h Street Chit ago, Illinois     100     100     100     Hyrdo-Wet     Colloidal Products P.O. Box 621 Petaiuma, California     Neutrortyx 600      Onyx Chemical Company 190 Warren Street Jersey City, New Jersey     Tciromc 90H     Irnon B 1956     Wyandotte Chemical Co. Wy andotte, Michtgan     Rohm k Haas Company Independence Mall W. Philadelphia, Pennsylvania     87.5     100     100     7.0     ?Aqua Gro granuhif ts u*ed at rate of 1 qt/ctt yd.     Spreaders and stickers recommended for use with fungicides and insecticides should not be used as general sur- ^^ factants since they may injure plants.                                      flj     SOILS AND FERTILIZERS Soil Mixtures     Highly modified growing media have generally replaced unamended field soil in commercial floriculture crop production. Growing mixtures using the Cornell peat-lite ^A mixes or University of California soilless mixes as a base ^P are being used for a greater range of crops each year. Table 4 lists ingredients for the Cornell peat-lite mixes. Recommendations for use of the peat-lite mixes are contained in Cornell Information Bulletin 43, Cornell Peat-lite Mixes for Commercial Plant Growing. The recommendations which follow arc primarily for mixtures containing soil.     MIXES FOR POTTED PLANTS General Growing Mix for Most Crops     A mixture of 1 part soil, 1 part sphagnum peat moss, and 1 part perlite or sand by volume is satisfactory. See "African Violet/\' "Azalea," "Gardenia/* and "Gloxinia" for special mixes.     MIXES FOR CUT FLOWER CROPS     Mixtures  should   contain   1/3   to   1/2 soil by volume ^v depending on characteristics of the basic soil as follows:       ^r     For clay soils: 1 soil, 1 sphagnum peat moss, 1 perlite or sand. See "Cultural Recommendations for Specific Crops," page 25.     For loam and sandy soils: 2 soil, 1 sphagnum peat moss, 1 perlite or sand.     See table 4 and Cornell Information Bulletin 43, Cornell Peat-lite Mixes for Commercial Plant Growing for information on the use of peat-lite mixes for cut flower crops.     Guideline Nutrient Levels     Plants grow well in a wide range of nutrient concentrations. While general ranges of nutrient levels are specified below, they should he considered as guideline levels only. The specific levels to be used by a grower for his crops should be determined on the basis of his situation and experience. Factors to be considered in determining #j* his levels are:                                                                                ^m     Crops groum. Crops vary in their nutrient requirements. Levels are specified under "Cultural Recommendations for Specific Crops," page 25.     Stage of growth. Seedlings and cuttings just planted will require somewhat different levels than mature plants. Further, there are stages in the growth of some crops when nutrient levels should be adjusted to accomplish desired | results with the crop.     Season of year. Plants use nutrients in greater quantities in seasons when growth is rapid.     12     
    
chla7134041_1971_1_12

END OF IMAGE INFO
12
0013
00000013.jpg

     
     SOILS AND FERTILIZERS     Table 4.    Components for peat-lite mixes     Incorporate these ingredients:      __________________________.____+.     Osmocote                   Douglas     To prepare                                                                                                  Super-      Calcium or    Fritted                                      j4.j4.j4      Mag      fir bark     this mix:                         Sphagnum      Hort.           HorL     Ground    phosphate   potassium       trace          Iron        10*10*10   18-9-9        Amp     fine grind    Wetting     peat       vermiculite    perlite  limestone      0-20-0         nitrate       elements     sulfate        FtrL       18 6-12      7-40-6     1/8-1/2\'*      igent     (cuyd*)      (cuyd)       (cu yd)      (lb)              (lb)             (lb)              (oz)           (oz)           (lb)           (lb)           (lb)        (cu yd)         (oz)     1. Peat-lite Mix A for seedling and/or bedding plants                    0.5          0.5                               51-212                                                                                      3     2. Peat-lite Mix A with slow release fertilizer for potted plants                      0.5          0.5                             10           1.0              1.5            2                                            5             5                          3     3. Peat-lite Mix A with farm fertilizer                                    0.5          0.5                               5                                                                             5                                                       3     4. Peat-lite Mix A for greenhouse tomatoes with no liquid fertilization              0.5          0.5                             10           2.5               1.5            2                                          10             5                          3     5. Peat-lite Mix A for greenhouse tomatoes with liquid fertilization              0.5          0.5                             10           2.5               1.5            2                                                                                      3     6. Peat-lite Mix B with slow release fertilizer for     potted plants                      0.5                             0.5            5           2                  1.5            2                                            7.5          7.5                      3     potassium nitrate     7. Peat-lite Mix B with farm fertilizer                                    0.5                             0.5            5                                                                             8                                                       3     8. Cornell Foliage     Plant Mix*                          0.5         0.25            0.25          8           2                  1.0            2             0.75        2.5                                                      3     potassium nitrate     9. Cornell Epiphytic Mix*                              0.33                           0.33          7           4.0              1.0            2             0.50       2.5                                       0.33        3     potassium nitrate     *    One cu yd = 27 cu ft or 22 bu. However, 15 to 20% shrinkage occurs in mixing and for 1 full yd of mix use an additional 4 bu,t that is, to obtain 1 full yd of mix use 26 bu.     *   Developed by Russell C. Mott, L.H. Bailey Hortorium, Cornell University.     The fertilization and irrigation programs of the grower. Programs vary tremendously from grower to grower and greatly influence the guideline nutrient levels appropriate for a specific grower. For example, a grower who waters heavily and frequently and applies fertilizer with each watering will need to establish guideline nutrient levels appropriate to these practices. The producer who waters     and fertilizes less will need a considerably different set of guideline nutrient levels.     Growing medium, It is no longer possible to assume that all growers use a growing medium composed primarily of soil. With the advent of regular steam sterilization, bench soils are no longer replaced annually. Peat moss, perlite, and other amendments arc regularly added, and     13     
    
chla7134041_1971_1_13

END OF IMAGE INFO
13
0014
00000014.jpg

     
     FERTILIZERS     excess medium is skimmed from the benches. As these practices continue, bench soils that were 1:1:1 by volume soil, peat moss, and perlite or sand increase in ratio in favor of the nonsoil components. The buffering capacity and water-holding and aeration characteristics of the medium change considerably under these circumstances.. Guideline nutrient levels for such soils may need to be set somewhat higher than for the more traditional growing media which have a higher proportion of soil. Where peat-lite mixes arc used for potted and bench crops, guideline nutrient levels will need to be set with this in mind.     Other environmental factors. The grower\'s general management of crop environment, that is, light, carbon dioxide enrichment, spacing, temperature, and numerous other environmental factors, must be considered in setting guideline nutrient levels.     Research   and   grower   experience   indicate   that   most crops grow well in these guideline nutrient level ranges: Nitrates (NO3 )        ~         30 to 50 ppm*     Phosphorus (P)        -           4 to    6 ppm     Potassium (K)          -         25 to 35 ppm     ______Calcium tCa)           -         over 1 50 ppm     Paris per million in the soil extracting solution as determined by the modified Spur-way lest used at the Cornell Floriculture Soil Testing Laboratory. Where specific recommendations for crops vary, these are noted under "Cultural Recommendations for Specific Crops," page 25.     FERTILIZERS     Tabic 9 lists the fertilizers commonly used to supply nutrients to flower crops. Nutrient content and application rates are also listed.     Nitrogen Fertilizers     Nitrogen sources are inorganic and organic. Inorganic types are the mainstay of Rower crop fertilization programs.     During winter, M least half the nitrogen applied to crops should be in nitrate form. Ammonium forms must be converted by processes involving soil microorganism activity which is less in winter months.     Organic sources - dried blood, tankage, cottonseed meal, urea-formaldehyde nitrogen  are not recommended from November to March for crops grown at 500 F. Soil microorganisms that make the nitrogen available are not sufficiently active at that temperature. The use of organic sources may result in nitrogen starvation followed by an excessive salt condition in spring when warmer soil stimulates the microorganisms to greater activity in the accumulated material*.     Phosphorus Fertilizers     Phosphorus levels are most effectively adjusted by the addition of superphosphate to the soil prior to planting. Many growers supply the entire phosphorus needs of the crop with this application once a year. If this is done, fertilizer solutions  low  in phosphorus, such as 23-0-23,     25-0-25, 15-0-15, 20-5-30, can be used; and fertilizers high in phosphorus, such as 15-30-15 and 20-20-20 are not needed. Low phosphorus fertilizers are commercially available, for example, 20-5-30. A fertilizer of approximately 23-0-23 can be prepared by combining equal weights of ammonium nitrate and potassium nitrate. Superphosphate and other phosphorus fertilizer application rates are given in table 9.     Potassium Fertilizers     Potassium is applied with soluble sources listed in table 9.     Calcium Fertilizers     Calcium levels are best maintained in most soils by the periodic incorporation of ground limestone at the time of soil preparation. Because limestone also influences soil pH, both the calcium and the pH requirement of the crop must be considered. A soil test provides the only sound basis for determining when limestone is needed. Dolomitic limestone is preferred over calcium limestone because it supplies magnesium as well as calcium. Tables 6 and 9 give rates.     Calcium sulfate (gypsum or land plaster) is used to supply calcium in situations where a rise in pH, such as that produced by ground limestone or calcium nitrate, is undesirable. Gypsum is insoluble and should be incorporated in the soil at the rate of 5 lb per 100 sq ft prior to planting or worked into the soil surface after planting.     Gypsum also cements together fine soil particles and thus improves soil structure and drainage. It is useful where continuous use of sodium fertilizers has dispersed soil particles, causing poor drainage.     Complete Fertilizers     With soils initially low in nitrogen, phosphorus, and potassium, mix a complete fertilizer such as 5-10-10 or 10-10-10 in the soil before planting. Use rates given in table 9. Subsequent fertilization will be governed by the results of soil tests after the plants start to grow.     Micronutrients or Trace Elements     An unwanted, frequent side effect of improved cultural methods is a deficiency of micronutrients or trace elements in florist crops. Boron deficiency in carnation, rose, and snapdragon plantings is not unusual. Iron chlorosis in azaleas, gardenias, hydrangeas, and roses is common. Bedding plants grown in unamended peat-lite mixes may show iron and other trace-element deficiency symptoms.     Trace elements are needed in only very small quantities; an overapplication can cause as many problems as a deficiency. Two forms are generally available: fritted trace elements that are released slowly and soluble trace elements that are made rapidly available. Fritted trace elements are usually infused in soft glass which slowly     
    
chla7134041_1971_1_14

END OF IMAGE INFO
14
0015
00000015.jpg

     
     FERTILIZERS     dissolves; they can be incorporated into the soil once a year when it is being prepared for planting. Soluble trace elements should be applied in liquid form for accurate control of the amount. Soil application is safer and more effective than foliar sprav.     Foliar analyses, or leaf tests, for those crops for which standards have been developed, for example, roses and carnations, are more reliable than soil tests for determining deficiencies of micronutrients in the plant. A grower who suspects a micronutrient problem should seek help in diagnosis from his Cooperative Extension agent.     When deficiencies exist, appropriate materials listed in table 10 should be applied. Iron-chlorotic leaves should begin to "green-up" 10 days after application of iron. An improvement in growth of boron-deficient plants should be apparent 3 to 4 weeks after treatment. See Cornell Information Bulletin 43, Cornell Peat-lite Mixes for Commercial Plant Growing, for applications of boron and iron in peat-lite mixes.     Some   fertilizer   manufacturers   include   certain   mi\' nutrients in their high-analysis materials without giving the information   on   the  bag  label. Micronutrients  are often found in low-analysis fertilizers as a contaminant, but the quantities are too low to correct deficiencies.     Controlled-Release Fertilizer     A number of fertilizers that release nutrients over a period of time are available (see table 9). The decision to use these controlled- or slow-release fertilizers should be based on the content, frequency and method of application, and the cost both to buy and to use. Controlled-release fertilizers can be used to provide nutrition throughout the duration of a crop, or they can be used at rales that will require supplemental liquid fertilization. Unless specific information is known about the product, it should     be used on  trial basil only. Read the label before using. Oimocote must nol be mixed with soil before steam iteril ization. Mixes containing Osmocote should nol be stored for more than 7 to 10 days unless the storage tentperature     is 400F or lower. When i-outiolled-release fertilizers are used, be sure to state this on soil test information cards sent with soil samples. Youi Cooperative Extension agent     has current information on tout rolled-release leriili/cis.     Fertilizer Dyes     Use of dyes of different   colors enables [  growei   to color-code various stock solutions  fbi ease ol Employee     use. L\'si ol dyes in the fertilize! solution also helps the operatoi detect malfunctions in trie proportioning system.     Some soiin es ol i ommrn i.il dyes are:     Alpha/ii11in- FGND Concentration 200% (blue color) Bachmeiei 8c Co., Inc.,  154 Chambers Street, New York, New York 10007     I i.mine (lluoiisi ml greenish \\cllow)     DuPont  Dyes and Chemicals Div., ) South Dearborn     Street, Room i626, [ hi[ ago, Illinois.....iO I     Petei\'s Compound Ml  (also contains chelating agents, penetrating agents, and some trace elements)     Robert   B.   Peters   Co.,   2833   Pennsylvania  Street,     Mien town, Penns) Ivania 18104     FERTILIZER PROGRAMS     With mil present knowledge ol crop nutrients and soil tagement, coupled with the availability ol high-analysis soluble  fertilizers, soil test procedures, and modern pro portioning   and   aniom.nn    watering   equipment,   pro grammed crop fertilization has become standard. Cornell l xtension Bulletin I l 75, Fertilizer Proportioner* l[]r linn culture and Nursery Crop Production Management pre-     WHAT IS A PROPORTIONER?     1/2 LB   FERTILIZER ;~CAL WATER*     1/2 LB  FERTILIZER ;~ 100 GALS  WATER      1/2 LB  FERTILIZER ;- 200 SQ   FT BENCH AREA      Diagram shows how proportioner devices inject concentrated fertilizer stock solution into water supply to provide uniform distribution of fertilizer over a given bench area.     15     
    
chla7134041_1971_1_15

END OF IMAGE INFO
15
0016
00000016.jpg

     
     SOLUBLE SALTS- pH     scribes programs and related soil and equipment management practices. Your Cooperative Extension agent can provide assistance in starting a program.     SOLUBLE SALTS     The term, total soluble salts, refers to the presence in the soil of ions that dissolve easily in water. Potassium, calcium, nitrates, phosphate, sulfates, and chlorides are a few. Excessive concentrations of these salts damage plant roots; some symptoms are chlorosis or yellowing of the leaves, wilting, leaf burn or necrosis, stunting of the plant, slow growth of seedlings or cuttings, and actual death of the plant. Poor seed germination may also be a sign. See table 5 for interpretation of soluble salts levels.     An excess of soluble salts may result from:     -   Infrequent, heavy applications of fertilizers. Programs     of  regular,  moderate-concentration applications are     recommended.     Residues of chlorides, sulphates, and other fertilizer materials not used by plants in large quantities.     Table 5.    Interpretation of total soluble salts test     Total soluble salts* (Solubridge readings     K * IChs )_______     Rating                     Interpretation     Mineral          Peat- lit e     $oU                 mix     Above 200     Above 350      Excessively    Plants    may     be     severely high                injured.     176-200        225   350        Very high       Plants     may     grow     ade-     quately, but range is very near the danger zone and injury may occur especially if soil dries.     126175176-225HighSatisfactory for established plants. The upper level may be too high for seedlings or newly planted cuttings.     51125100-175MediumSatisfactory for general plant growth. Excellent range for plants fertilized at every watering.     0500-100LowA low soluble salt content does no harm but may indicate very low nutrient content.     The concentration of soluble salts is determined electrically with a Solubridge instrument. Readings reported by the Floriculture Soils Laboratory at Cornell University arc Kx I0~ s . a measure of electrical conductivity. Other laboratories may report results in milltmhos per centimeter, Convert millimhos per centimeter to Kx 10-s by moving the decimal point 2 pUcr$ to the right, e.g., 2.50 millimhos per centimeter ~ 250 Kt 10-* . For mineral soils the Floriculture Soil Testing Laboratory uses 1 part dry soil and 2 parts water; for peaMitc mixes a level tablespoon of dry mix and 40 mlHiJiters of water give an equivalent J: 2 volume ratio.       Soil sterilization by steam or chemicals which releases salts tied up by microorganisms or soil colloids.       High concentration of salts in the water supply. See "Water."       Light watering, especially when fertilizer is applied with each irrigation. A proper application is a gallon of water for 2 square feet of soil 6 inches deep.       Poor drainage of benches and containers caused by swollen drainage cracks, plugged drainage holes in pots, and setting packs and containers on surfaces that prevent drainage.     Reducing Soluble Salts     Before planting. Potting soils high in soluble salts should be diluted with field soil, perlite, or peat moss. To reduce soluble salts in bench soils, allow the soil to dry. Then remove top 1 or 2 inches where the salts have accumulated by evaporation. Dilute remaining soil with new field soil low in soluble salts or with sand, perlite, or peat moss. Raised benches can be thoroughly leached instead.     After planting. Leaching is the most effective method of reducing high salts once the crop is growing. Water the soil heavily, applying 1 gallon of water per square foot of bench area or 1 pint per pot. After 30 to 60 minutes repeat the application. The First- watering dissolves the salts; the second flushes the salts from the soil. Since all salts including nutrients are leached, a light application of nitrogen and potassium may be necessary after leaching.     pH  ACIDITY AND ALKALINITY     The term pH is a measure of the degree of acidity or alkalinity of a soil. The values range from 0, which is the most acid, to 14.0, which is the most alkaline. The neutral point is 7.0. Since the acidity increases on a logarithmic scale, the soil at pH 6.0 is 10 times more acid than at pH 7.0; and at pH 5.0, is 100 times more acid than at 7.0, and so on. Therefore, considerably more ground limestone is needed to raise the pH from 5.0 to 6.0 than from 6.0 to 7.0. See figure 3.     The soil reaction as measured by pH is important because it has a direct relationship on the availability of nutrients for plant growth. Use appropriate ranges indicated in figure 3 for all crops except those for which pH recommendations are given in "Cultural Recommendations for Specific Crops," page 25. At the extremes of the plant-growing range, some elements may become unavailable, resulting in a deficiency; and others become available in quantities toxic to plants. Figure 4 shows the relationship of pH and nutrient availability.     Adjusting Soil pH     Most floriculture crops grow best in a pH range of 6.0 to 6.8. Soil pH tends to change gradually, depending on many factors. If soil tests indicate a trend in pH out of the     16     
    
chla7134041_1971_1_16

END OF IMAGE INFO
16
0017
00000017.jpg

     
     pH- SOIL TESTS     Alkaline     Neutral     Acid     14.0     13.0     12.0     11.0     10.0     9.0     8.0     7.0     6.8     6.0     5.5     5.0     4.5     4.0     3.0     2.0     1.0     0     Table 6.    Rates of materials to adjust pH     Range for most flower crops     Range for azaleas, gardenias, and other acid-soil plants     Figure 3.    Soil pH values for flower crops.     Figure 4.    Relationship of pH and nutrient availability.     recommended   range, corrective    measures    should      be initiated.     When the soil pH is to be adjusted, there are several things to keep in mind:     1.    Have the soil tested well before planting so that materials for pH adjustment can be incorporated at time of soil preparation.     2.    The rate of change of the soil pH varies with soil type; light (sandy) soils with little organic matter change more quickly and with less corrective material than heavy (clay) soils and soils high in organic matter.     3.    The rate of change also is affected by the material used, temperature, moisture, and aeration conditions. Changes are rapid in warm, moist, well-aerated soils. Slow-acting ground limestone has a longer lasting effect than hydrated lime. Hydrated lime may result in such rapid changes that crop damage occurs.     4.    When a crop is growing in the soil, some pH control can be achieved by selecting fertilizers with either acid or alkaline reaction (table 9). Also, the addition of 1 ounce of phosphoric acid per gallon of fertilizer stock solution will     Material     For bench      For potting soiIs sods       ______r          _______     lb 1100     lb/20 bu            oz/     sq ft      or 1 cu yd        2\'h bu     Rate of     pH change     To lowerpH 1 /2 to 1 unit     Finely ground     sulphur%                  %t     Aluminum     sulphate*31V4                  3     Iron sulphate*3m            3     To raisepH 1/2 to 1 unit     Ground limestone52%*                  5     Dolomitic limestone     2ft     slow     rapid moderate     moderate moderate     NOTE: Rates are for light to medium soils. For heavier soils with more organic matter, increase rate by 1/3. Wait 3 weeks for chemical reaction to occur before testing for necessity of second application.     ?Can be applied as a soil drench in enough water to cover 100 sq ft bench area or equivalent soil area of potted crops.     lower pH. Some pH-corrective materials add nutrients. Ground limestone and hydrated lime add calcium; iron sulphate adds iron.     To lower pH quickly, that is, increase acidity, apply iron sulphate or aluminum sulfate. Iron sulphate is preferred because it also applies iron and because overapplications of aluminum sulphate can result in aluminum toxicity. Finely ground dusting sulfur can be used, but it takes longer to react (2 to 3 months at 600 minimum temperature). It has, however, a longer residual effect. Use rates in table 6.     To raise pi I, that is, decrease acidity and increase alkalinity, apply ground limestone and incorporate it into the soil. Calcitic limestone contains calcium; dolomitic limestone contains both calcium and magnesium. Use the rates given in table 6. If the pH is very low and no crop is growing in the soil, increase the rates of application. If a crop is growing in the soil, apply the ground limestone in water with continuous agitation to keep the limestone in suspension. When the soil becomes adequately dry, the material can be cultivated lightly into the surface. Hydrated lime produces a rapid pH change; apply to the soil surface at a rate not to exceed 2 lb per 100 sq ft of bench area. Water in hydrated lime immediately. Avoid using hydrated lime on tender crops, such as seedling snapdragons and bedding plants, and on young cuttings. Repeat applications of ground limestone and hydrated lime should not be made sooner than 4 weeks. Also, a grower can select fertilizers which will make desired changes in pH (table 9). A soil test will help to determine if a second application is needed.     Soil Tests     Soil tests alone do not ensure optimum plant growth. But along with a regular fertilization program based on plant growth and response, a well-drained, well-aerated soil mixture, and proper watering practices, soil test reports provide valuable production management information.     17     
    
chla7134041_1971_1_17

END OF IMAGE INFO
17
0018
00000018.jpg

     
     SOIL TESTS - CARBON DIOXIDE     The suggested procedure for scheduling and handling samples for tests done by the Soil Testing Laboratory of the Department oP Floriculture and Ornamental Horticulture, Cornell University, Ithaca, New York 14853 follows. Soil sample mailing boxes are available from your Cooperative Extension agent or from the laboratory for S3.00 a box which includes the cost of testing.     1.   Establish a regular schedule for testing throughout the crop program. Begin with a test 3 to 4 weeks before the crop is to be planted. If the soil needs phosphorus and pH adjustments, the grower can more easily and economically include the proper materials during preplant mixing. The test schedule thereafter is determined by your fertilization program. Your Cooperative Extension agent can help you plan a schedule.     2.   Take samples 5 to 7 days after applying fertilizer and either just before or 2 or 3 days after watering to ensure accurate readings. In constant fertilization programs, length of interval is not as important, and samples can be taken at any time.     3.   To minimize error and maintain consistency, designate one person to take the samples. Be sure the house number, bench, and crop are recorded correctly and completely.     4.   For sampling use a narrow trowel or a thin-walled coring tube of conduit \'2 to % inch in diameter and 12 inches long.     5.   Scrape away any mulch and the top V2 inch of soil. For bench crops, use the 3i-inch-diamcter tubing and take at least 10 cores from different locations. For potted crops, use the \'A-inch-diameter tubing and take samples from no less than 10 pots. A lower number of samples means a higher percentage of error and possibly inaccurate recommendations. Plunge the coring instrument into the full depth of the soil, but not into the drainage material.     6.   Mix the 10 cores on a clean, nonabsorbent surface. Do not use newspaper or cardboard because they absorb soil solutions containing nutrients. Dry thoroughly, but not in direct sunlight. Heating to 1250F is permissible to cut drying time to 24 hours; higher temperatures may cause loss of certain nutrients.     7.   When the sample is dry, screen it with common metal window mesh to remove debris.     8.   Be sure to complete and send the information post card provided with each soil sample box. The card describes your crop, fertilizer program, and any difficulties. Be sure to indicate if slow-release fertilizers have been incorporated in the mix. This card is important to the soils laboratory as a basis for making recommendations. Check to be sure the number of the box is marked to agree with the number on the card.     9.   The grower will receive from the Cornell Floriculture Soil Testing Laboratory a report of nutrient levels along with recommendations by a staff member for application of nutrients, if required.     10.   Complete instructions concerning soil test programs are contained in Cornell Extension Bulletin I 1 75.     Table 7.    Soil volume equivalents     l bushel equals 1 1/4 cubic feet. 1 cubic yard equals 22 bushels.     100 square feet of bench area (6-inch depth of soil) contains 50 cubic feet or 40 bushels or a little less than 2 cubic yards.     See also "The Metric System," page 24.     Table 8.    Number of pots per bushel and per cubic yard soil mix     Size of potNo. fbuNo./ cu ydSize of pot (%4 depth)No. fbuNo./ cu yd     2V4-in standard3166,9524-in azalea701,540     2\'/2-in standard2204,8405-in azalea35770     3-in standard1342,9486-in azalea20440     4-in standard581,276     5 in standard327045-in low pan501,100     6-in standard183966-in low pan39858     7-in standard112427-in low pan17374     8-in standard8176     12-in standard244     NOTE: Based on volume of pots when filled level to rim with loose, unpacked soil mix.     SOIL STERILIZATION AND FUMIGATION     Recommended soil sterilization and fumigation procedures are contained in Cornell Recommendations for Commercial Floriculture Crops, Part II: Disease, Pest, and Weed Control.     CARBON DIOXIDE     Carbon dioxide (CO2), one of the basic materials in plant carbohydrate production (photosynthesis), is normally about 300 parts per million, or 0.03 percent, of the atmosphere. But in a greenhouse in midwinter when little outside air enters, plants may deplete the available supply and plant growth may slow. Although carbon dioxide (CO2) enrichment of the greenhouse atmosphere is widely practiced in the industry, some question remains concerning its value. Benefits from carbon dioxide are difficult to document because of the complex interactions of the environmental factors of light, nutrients, water, temperature, and other influences in the photosynthesis process. Cornell and other universities continue to research answers to the carbon dioxide question.     One of the important questions is, To what extent can carbon dioxide enrichment be beneficial under conditions of late fall and winter low light intensity, typical of upstate New York and much of the northeastern United States? Carbon dioxide can be beneficial only if it is the factor limiting photosynthesis. Under fall and winter conditions in New York State, it is possible that sufficient carbon dioxide is present in the greenhouse to support the     18     
    
chla7134041_1971_1_18

END OF IMAGE INFO
18
0019
00000019.jpg

     
     Table 9.    Fertilizers and standard application rates for greenhouse crops in mixes containing soil     FERTILIZERS     ]     Material     Nutrient analysis (%)     Nitrogen      Ph osp h o rus      Po tassiu m (N)             (P2Os)             (K20)     Plants in     Bench cropssoil in potsFor mixing     in soil mixes containersbulk soilRelative     (Ib/lOOsq ft(lb 11000 gal(Ib/cu ydavailability     6 in* depth *)of water *)soil mix t)     1  +20Rapid     2/3 '10Rapid     1/2 '10-Rapid     4_9Medium     2-1Mediumrapid     31-1/2Medium     ]     Nitrogen (acid reaction)     Ammonium sulphate     Ammonium nitrate     Urea     Activated sludge (organic)     Dried blood (organic)     Animal tankage (organic)     200     33.50     42-460     4-62-4     9-140     5-102-5     ]     ]     Nitrogen (basic reaction)     Sodium nitrate     (nitrate of soda) Calcium nitrate Potassium nitrate     Phosphorus     Superphosphate Treble superphosphate Monocalcium phosphate Monoammonium phosphate Diammonium phosphate Steamed bonemeal (organic)     Potassium     Potassium chloride     (muriate of potash) Potassium sulphate Potassium nitrate     Complete fertilizers     For dry application     5-10-10 (or 5-10-5) 10-10-10     For liquid application 15-15-15     14-28-14 or 15-30-15 20-20-20 or 23-0-23 " 20-5-30     Controlled-rclease fertilizers #     MagAmp Osmocote **     Peters Scotts Urea formaldehyde:     Bordens 38     Nitroform     Uramite     16001 *20     15.5001 '20     12-14044-461/2 '10     018-2005     04501-1/3     05501 '-     114801-1/3S__     215401  '     22504__     0050-601/2 510     00481/2 '10     12-14044-461/2 510     510102-1/2-     1010101-1/4     1515153/4-1 s30-40     14 or 1528 or 3014or153/4-1 *30-40     20 or 2320or020or !231/2-3/4 *20-30     205301/2-3/4 520-30     740610-15 **     141414''10_     1899''10_     147710 IIII     23776 IIII-     38002 IIII.     38002 IIII-     38002 IIII_     2-1/2     Rapid Rapid Rapid     Slow     Slow     Rapid     Rapid     Rapid     Slow-medium     Rapid Rapid Rapid     1-1/2 3/4Rapid Rapid     -Rapid Rapid Rapid Rapid     5-5 5 5 310Controlled Controlled Controlled Controlled Controlled     1 1 1Controlled Controlled Controlled     (continued on next page)     NOTE: Recommendations in this table arc for mixes containing soil. For information on fertilization of peat-lite mixes see page 13. *        For constant fertilization, lower rates are used.   Sec Cornell Extension Bulletin 1175. t        See table 7 for conversion to amounts/bu soil mix. '       Apply in sufficient water to cover area.     An analysis of approximately 23-0-23 can be prepared by mixing 50% by weight ammonium nitrate and 50% by weight potassium nitrate.     See page 15 for discussion of controlled-rclease fertilizers*     Supplemental potassium fertilization may be beneficial when MagAmp is used for chrysanthemums.     MagAmp is available in medium or coarse particle size; medium grade lasts 12-20 weeks under greenhouse conditions and the coarse grade     lasts about twice as long. MagAmp also contains 12% magnesium,     Several more specialized formulations of Osmocote are available. Osmocote should be added only after soil mix has been mearn-sterilized.     Supplemental fertilisation to provide phosphorus and potassium is necessary when these formulations arc used.     19     II #     ''     
    
chla7134041_1971_1_19

END OF IMAGE INFO
19
0020
00000020.jpg

     
     CARBON DIOXIDE - AIR POLLUTION     Table 9.     Continued     Material     Nutrient analysis     Bench crops in soil mixes (Ib/lOOsqft 6 in. depth *)     Plants in     soil in pots      containers     (lb/1000 gal     of water *)     For mixing bulk soil           Relative     (Ib/cu yd        availability     soil mix t)     Calcium (Ca)     Calcium carbonate (CaCOg)     (pulverized or ground     limestone)                                                32% Ca     Calcium hydroxide (Ca [OH] 2)                        60-80% Ca     (hydrated lime)     Calcium sulfate (CaS042 H20)     (gypsum or land plaster) *                           29% Ca, 20% S     Magnesium (Mg)     Dolomiuc limestone     (MgC03CaC03)                                           20% Mg, 30% Ca     Magnesium sulfate (MgS04 7 H20)     (Epsom salt)                           "                     10% Mg, 13%S     Sulfur (S)     Powdered sulfur (S)                                          95% S     2-10 ##         Insoluble     1_2 ##          Relatively     insoluble     2-10     Insoluble     2_io ##         Insoluble     1/2-3 ##             10-60 *     2-5 ##           Insoluble     1-6 1/2-1     1-6     1-6 1-6     1-3     Slow Rapid     Slow     Slow Medium     Slow     ##    Rate related to pH; see table 6.     ***    Apply as a soil drench: 1 gal/2 sq ft of bench area.     level of photosynthesis occurring under low light intensities. In this situation, light, the essential energy source for the process, and not the carbon dioxide supply, is the environmental factor limiting the amount of plant food produced and available to the plant for growth and development. Adding carbon dioxide under circumstances where light is the limiting factor will not be beneficial. Conversely, adding carbon dioxide when light or some other environmental factor is not limiting photosynthesis likely will increase carbohydrate production.     Until more conclusive research under New York State conditions is completed, growers in this state are advised:     1.   If you presently inject carbon dioxide and crop yield and (or) quality seem to be improved, continue your program.     2,   If you are not injecting carbon dioxide, try it on a limited basis, that is, in one or two greenhouses. Compare results for the same crops grown in another greenhouse in your range having the same environmental conditions, but in which carbon dioxide has not been injected. A usual level of enrichment is 1000 to 1200 ppm of carbon dioxide.     %. Whether you inject carbon dioxide or not, use fans to stir greenhouse air during daylight hours November through March if your greenhouses are tight. This ensures more efficient use by the plants of available carbon dioxide.     Carbon dioxide enrichment of the greenhouse atmosphere is done either by injections of pure manufactured carbon dioxide gas or by burning hydrocarbons like natural gas or kerosene to produce carbon dioxide. Many kinds of burners, both commercial and grower-built, are available. Selection should be based on economics, specific requirements, and safety considerations. Consult your Cooperative Extension agent for assistance in planning installations of equipment.     There are also hazards. Concentrations of carbon dioxide above 5000 ppm or 9000 mg/cubic meter, for a 7-8-hour workday and 40-hour workweek, are toxic to humans and animals and are damaging to plants. The use of combustion equipment requires careful attention to safety devices that ensure production of carbon dioxide and water only. Incomplete combustion results in production of substances toxic to humans and plants.     AIR POLLUTION     Air pollution is an increasingly important problem for growers in metropolitan and industrial areas. Very small concentrations of sulfur dioxide, fluoride smokes and vapors, ozone, ethylene, and PAN (peroxyacetyl nitrate) can cause damage. Injury to plants shows as flecking or dead areas on foliage and flowers, bleaching of foliage, reduced growth, leaf drop, and premature wilting or drying of flowers. Symptoms are more likely to follow periods of     20     
    
chla7134041_1971_1_20

END OF IMAGE INFO
20
0021
00000021.jpg

     
     FERTILIZERS     Table 10.     Micronutrient fertilizers and standard application rates for greenhouse crops grown in mixes containing soil     Material     Nutrient analysis     (%)     Bench crops     in soil mixes     (ozflOOsqft     6 in. depth *)     Plants in     soil in pots      containers     (oz/1000 gal     of water *)     Relative availability     Comments     Boron (B)*     Boric acid (H3BO3)     Sodium tetraborate (Na2B4O7.10H2O)     (11% Borax, ie. 11% 20 Mule-team Borax, ll%Borateem etc.)     17.5 B 11.3B     0.6 9     Roses, carnations, snapdragons, and most other crops: apply %2 oz in 2 applications 1 month apart. \'     6V2 10     Rapid          Apply no more than a total of 1 oz/100 sq ft     per yr. In proven deficiencies,  more may be     Medium necessary; however consult your Cooperative Extension agent before exceeding this level.     Copper (Cu)*     Copper sulfate (CUSO4)     Iron (Fe)     Chelated iron: Sequestrene 330     Other chelated formulations Iron sulfate (FeS04-7 H20)     Manganese (Mn) $     Manganese sulfate (MnS04)     Molybdenum (Mo)     Ammonium Molybdate     ([NH4]6Mo7024-4H20)     Sodium molybdate (Na2Mo04-2 H20)     25 Cu     10 Fe     y^h'     VA     24-65 Mn        V4-V*     1     Slow     36                       Rapid (about 2 lb)     Variable       Follow label directions                     Rapid     20 Fe                16'                   500 (31 lb)           Slow     Slow     54.3 Mo      See Comments.     See Comments.    Slow     39.7 Mo      See Comments.     See Comments,    Slow     Zinc (Zn) *     Zinc sulfate (ZnS04)     Micronutrient mixtures * Numerous commercial formulations available     22-35 Zn          V4-fc     Variable       Follow label directions.     Slow     Variable     For use on cither acid or alkaline soils.     Make a stock solution containing 1 lb sodium or ammonium molybdate in 5 gal water. Use 7.5 fl oz of stock solution in 50 gal concentrate for 1:100 proportioned to provide 0.1 ppm molybdenum for constant fertilization programs in which fertilizer is applied with each watering, and 15 fl oz of stock solution in 50 gal concentrate for 1:100 proportioned for programs in which fertilization is done only once in 2 or 3 weeks. As a 1-application-only corrective drench, use 75 fl oz stock sol* ution in 50 gal concentrate for 1:100 propor-tioner to give 1 ppm; for application with a 1:15 proportioncr (Ilozon, Syphones, etc.) use 1.14 fl oz of stock solution in 5 gal water to give 1 ppm molybdenum. Do not apply this corrective drench if you are already ap-plying molybdenum through your regular fertilizatton program.     Available  in  soluble  or fritted form.  Apply once or twice annually depending on product.     NOTE: Recommendations in this table are for mixes containing soil. For information on fertilization in peat-lite mixes see page 13.     *    For constant fertilization, lower rates are used. See Cornell Extension Bulletin 1175.     *   Chelated formulations also available,     ' Apply in sufficient water to cover area.     21     
    
chla7134041_1971_1_21

END OF IMAGE INFO
21
0022
00000022.jpg

     
     WOOD PRESERVATIVES FOR USE IN PLANT-GROWING OPERATIONS -PLANT GROWTH REGULATORS     poor air movement. Petunia, tobacco, browallia, spinach, pine, and gladiolus.readily show symptoms. Your Cooperative Extension agent can assist in identifying air pollution injurs symptoms.     WOOD PRESERVATIVES FOR USE IN PLANT-GROWING OPERATIONS     Only copper naphthanatc (Cuprinol green, etc.) is recommended as a safe wood preservative for use in greenhouses and other plant-growing structures. Allow at least a week to elapse before placing plants on or near wood that has been freshly treated with the chemical.     Creosote and pentachlorophenol (Penta, etc.), while effective wood preservatives, are considered extremely injurious to crops. Do not use in or around plant-growing structures. There are reports that B-l-N, a commercial paint product, when applied to wood mistakenly treated with these preservatives, may seal in the fumes. It is worth a try in such a situation.     PLANT GROWTH REGULATORS     A plant growth regulator is a natural or synthetic chemical substance, usually organic, which in very small quantities regulates or controls some aspect of plant growth such as flowering, fruiting, rooting, leaf abscission, stem length, winter hardiness, and others. All regulators either promote or inhibit plant growth and development depending on the concentration used. In commercial floriculture they are used primarily for control of flowering and of plant height and form in chrysanthemums, lilies, poinsettias, azaleas, bedding plants, hydrangeas, and gardenias; for promotion of rooting of cuttings of many plants; and for weed control.     Chemicals Used to Stimulate Growth and Development     Auxins are a group of growth regulators which promote growth in length. They may also have other reactions in plants, but growth in length is the primary one. Examples are indoleacetic acid, indolebutyric acid, naphthaleneacetic acid, and phenoxyacctic acids, for example, 2,4 -D. Commercial uses are for root initiation, blossom thinning, leaf retention, inhibition of sprouting of tubers and bulbs, and weed control.     GihhereUms. found universally in plants, promote growth in length, but inhibit root formation on stems and leaves. They are thought to be involved in flowering. Their use in floriculture is somewhat limited because, although they increase plant and flower size, they often produce an undesirable abnormal appearance in plants and flowers. While gibbercllin sprays increase geranium flower size, the resultant excessive elongation of the flower stem may make it incapable of supporting the bloom. They are effectively used in the production of geranium "trees" and     to stimulate flower bud development in cyclamen. Preliminary research indicates that gibberellin treatments may    * substitute  for some of the dormant cold requirement in  f| azaleas.     Cytokinins induce cell division and differentiation. They are used in tissue culture propagation.^ certain concentrations, they delay aging of detached vegetative parts and, on this basis, have been used to extend the market life of celery and lettuce. Research is in progress to determine possible uses of cytokinins.                                                         A     Ethrel, an ethylene derivative, apparently induces ethy-  lene release in plants. Hence, it causes many plant growth and development responses characteristic of those caused by ethylene. USDA reports that foliar sprays of 2500 ppm of 3.9% Ethrel solution stimulate flowering in a number of species of bromeliads without causing foliar injury. Ethrel is registered for this use. Other effects of Ethrel observed experimentally are the promotion of rooting when used at low concentrations and in conjunction with indolebutyric acid, growth retardation, and promotion of branching in some crops. Further research on Ethrel is necessary before it can be recommended for these uses commercially.     Chemicals Used to Retard Growth     Several synthetic growth regulators are currently used by flower growers to inhibit plant growth. They are used as soil applications or foliar sprays depending on crop and   4 purpose of treatment.     Ancymidol (A-Rest) is a broad-purpose growth re-tardant that is effective on many plants. It is registered for use only on chrysanthemums, Easter lilies, and poinsettias. Complete directions for application of ancymidol to these crops are given on the label. Although both spray and soil drench applications are recommended, research indicates that the soil drench has a longer-lasting effect. Plants react very quickly to ancymidol; ensure not only that the concentrations used are correct but also that the amount applied per plant is accurate. As with other growth regulators, the response of cultivars is variable. And, as with all new chemicals, growers are advised to use the material on a trial basis before applying it to crops and cultivars with which they have not had previous experience. There are reports of ancymidol losing effectiveness if stored in plastic containers; store in glass containers.                                      .     Succinic  Acid-2,2  Dime thy Ihydrazide  (B-Nine, Alar)   \\ controls plant height, darkens foliage color, and strengthens stems. It is registered for use for various purposes on azaleas, bedding plants, chrysanthemums, gardenias, hydrangeas, and poinsettias. BNine contains 5% active ingredient. Alar85 contains 85% active ingredient. A stock solution made by mixing 8 oz Alar85 in 1 gal water will contain 5% active ingredient and is equivalent in concen- ^ tration  to 5% BNine available in the trade. This stock  % solution of AJar then can be used at the same rates recommended for BNine. The stock solution does not store     22     
    
chla7134041_1971_1_22

END OF IMAGE INFO
22
0023
00000023.jpg

     
     WEED CONTROL - PEST AND DISEASE CONTROL -POSTHARVEST HANDLING OF CUT FLOWERS AND POTTED PLANTS     well for long periods and should be refrigerated to prevent mold growth.     Cycocel has gained wide grower acceptance and is registered for use on poinsettia and azalea. In addition to reducing growth in height, Cycocel intensifies the green color of the foliage.     Phosfon (Phosfon D  dry material; Phosfon L  liquid formulation) is registered for use on chrysanthemums and lilies. Phosfon is persistent in the soil.     Chemicals Used to Prune or Disbud Plants     Researchers are investigating the effectiveness of several materials which chemically prune, pinch, or disbud plants. Sprayed on young growth, they kill terminal and (or) lateral buds without damaging foliage. For example, Off-Shoot-O sprayed on actively growing vegetative shoots of azalea kills the terminal buds and thereby achieves a chemical pinch. Considerable research remains to be done before recommendations can be made for use of pruning and disbudding chemicals in commercial flower production programs.     Growth Regulators in Your Production Program     Growth regulators can not be considered substitutes for good cultural practices. Furthermore, careful selection of crop varieties to obtain those with desirable height and growth characteristics often makes it unnecessary to use regulators. When using these chemicals, read and follow label instructions carefully. Purchase only in required quantities so as to ensure that fresh stocks of chemicals arc used. Some growth regulators have special storage requirements. Consult the label for storage instructions. Handle these chemicals according to all precautions for safe use of chemicals.     Recommendations for use of growth regulators on specific crops are given in "Cultural Recommendations for Specific Crops," page 25.     WEED CONTROL     Weeds not only are unsightly but also compete with crops for water, nutrients, and light. Weedy areas around greenhouses are sources of weed seeds, insects, and diseases which enter greenhouses and other production areas. A program of cultivation, mowing, and chemical weed control with herbicides in adjacent areas will greatly reduce the weed problem and improve the appearance of your operation.     Many soil sterilization methods and materials for nematode and disease control are also effective for controlling weeds. See Cornell Recommendations for Commercial Floriculture Crops, Part II: Disease, Pestt and Weed Control for general and crop-specific weed control recommendations, and for recommended soil sterilization practices.     PEST AND DISEASE CONTROL     Pests and diseases of floriculture crops cause tremendous losses annually. Basic to an effective control program are the careful management of crop environment to prevent damage and the proper use of pesticides when necessary. The cultural and sanitation aspects of preventive control programs are discussed under "Cultural Recommendations for Specific Crops," page 25. General information about the nature of pests and diseases, soil sterilization and fumigation procedures for their prevention, and the safe use of pesticides in the greenhouse is contained in Cornell Recommendations for Commercial Floriculture Crops, Part II: Disease, Pest, and Weed Control* Contact your Cooperative Extension agent for assistance in identifying unusual pest and disease problems. He will determine whether specimens should be sent to the College of Agriculture and Life Sciences for further diagnosis.     POSTHARVEST HANDLING OF CUT FLOWERS AND POTTED PLANTS     It is frequently said that one-third of a cut flower\'s life is determined by preharvest environment and two-thirds by postharvest handling and environment. To ensure that the consumer receives maximum quality flowers, use the following procedures:     1.   Manage crop culture carefully so that quality flowers with maximum food reserve are produced.     2.   Cut at the proper stage of development and during the afternoon when carbohydrate supply is at a maximum in the plant.     3.   Cut flowers with a sharp knife. Scissors or pruning shears crush water-conducting tissues.     4.   Immediately place cut flowers in 1000 F clean water to which a preservative has been added, and remove from the greenhouse quickly. Mold in water with preservative at 350 400F before grading and packing and again before shipping. Wash containers thoroughly with a detergent, preferably between uses, but at least weekly.     5.   Ideally, flowers should be kept in water throughout the marketing process. Although present transportation and marketing methods do not readily allow for this, growers should urge their wholesalers and retailers to place cut flowers in water with preservative whenever possible. If flowers have been out of water for some time, Vi-\'Ya inch of stem should be removed and the stems plunged in 1000F water with preservative added.     6.   Handle flowers gently to avoid bruising and breakage.     7.   Harvest and shipment of carnations and chrysanthemums in bud are currently being studied. Growers are advised to keep abreast of this research for possible application in marketing.     8.   Maintain strict sanitation in refrigerators. Discard old flowers quickly. Do not place fruit, or other food products in the same refrigerator with flowers.     23     
    
chla7134041_1971_1_23

END OF IMAGE INFO
23
0024
00000024.jpg

     
     CARE OF FLOWERING AND FOLIAGE PLANTS IN RETAIL STORES - METRIC SYSTEM     9. Potted plants should be handled with care to avoid damage. Maintain regular fertilization practices and maximum light possible until the plants are removed from the greenhouse.     Recommendations for the postharvest handling of specific crops can be found in the manuals listed under "References\'" for each crop. For general information on the postharvest care and handling of cut flowers and potted plants, see the series of articles "Toward Longer-Lasting Flowers" by Ralph N. Freeman, Xew York State Flower Industries Bulletin, numbers 10-13, 15, 18, 21, 24, 25, 33.     Care of Flowering and Foliage Plants in Retail Stores     Proper care of flowering and foliage plants in retail stores during the marketing process will do much to guarantee a satisfied and continuing customer. The conscientious floriculture crop producer will take the initiative to briet his wholesalers and retailers with at least basic care information. Publications useful for this purpose are available from your Cooperative Extension agent or the Mailing Room, Building 7, Cornell University, Research Park, Ithaca, New York 14853:     Cornell Extension Bulletin 1087       Artificial Lighting for     Decorative Plants     Cornell Extension Bulletin I 192 -   Add   flours   to    Your     Flowers     Cornell Information Bulletin 40 --    The     Cornell    Auto-     ma ted   Plan t    Gro wer     Cornell Information Bulletin 11 7 ~~ The Selection, Culture,     and  Use of Plants in Home Settings     A useful series of articles on the care of foliage plants in retail stores by Russell Molt appears in New York State Flower Industries Bulletin,, numbers 12    17, 19, 20.     Table 11.    Plant spacing guide     Spacing     Plants !*qft     ;\'\' x 9" 8" x 8" S" x 7" 8" % 6" 6" * 7" 6" x 6"     y % r     5" * 4" 5" x $" 4" x 3"     2.0 2.3 2.6 1.0 5.4 4.0 4.H     b.n     7/2     9.6     12.0     Plan is/A ofPlants /A     productionof ground     areacovered *     S7.00058,000     98.00065,000     114,00076,000     130,00087.000     147.00098,000     1 74,000116.000     208.000139,000     252.000168,000     31 3,000209,000     418,000279,000     r]22;000S48,0O0     SOURCE:Adapted from The Grower Annual (Grower Books, 49 Dough I y St., London* Eng., 1970), p, 140. * Assuming 2/3 of area covered*     THE METRIC SYSTEM     The United States will adopt the metric system of measurement within the next decade. Floriculture businessmen will find metric units used increasingly on chemical labels and in trade literature.     The metric system is based on the decimal system. The basic units are:     meter:  a little longer than a yard (about 1.1 yards)     liter:  a little larger than a quart (about 1.06 quarts)     gram:  about the weight of a paper clip     Common prefixes to be used with these basic metric units are:     milli:  one-thousandth (0.001); for example,     1000 millimeters = 1 meter centi:  one-hundredth (0.01); for example,     100 centimeters = 1 meter kilo:  one thousand times (1000); for example, 1000 meters = 1 kilometer     Other commonly used metric units are:     m illim e t er - 0.0 01 meter     centimeter = 0.01 meter     kilometer = 1000 meters (about 0.6 miles)     kilogram - 1000 grams (about 2.2 pounds)     milliliter = 0.001    liter   (five   milliliters  equal  about   a teaspoon)     hectare = about 2 1/2 acres     tonne = about 1 ton As a familiarization aid, a metric system conversion table (table 12) is provided.     Table 12.    Metric system conversion table          Liquid capacity     1 fluid ounce (fl oz)     1 pint (pt) = 16 fl oz     1 quart (qt)     1 gal (gal)     1 liter (1)     1 milliliter (ml)     30 milliliters (mi)     473 ml     946 mi     3785 ml     1000 ml     1 cubic centimeter (cc)     Dry material weight 1 ounce (avoirdupois)        =           28.4 grams (gm)     1 pound (lb)                     =         453.6 gm     1 kilogram (kg)                 =        1000    gm = 2.2 lb     1 cubic inch (in**) 1 cubic foot (ft3) 1 bushel (bu) 1 cubic yard (yd3)     Volume     16.4   milliliters (ml) 7.48 gal  =    28.3 liters (1) i 24 ft3 =    35.2 liters     21.7 bu     = 765    liters     Linear     \\ inch (in) I foot (ft) 1 yard (yd) 1 meter (m)     2.54 centimeters (cm) 30.48 cm 91.44 cm 100      cm     ?J     24     
    
chla7134041_1971_1_24

END OF IMAGE INFO
24
0025
00000025.jpg

     
     AFRICAN VIOLET     -40     -20     TEMPERATURE     20                37     _1     60     80     100     J-     32 WATER FREEZES     I------p-----T"     80     98.6 BODY TEMPERATURE     160     212 WATER BOILS     Figure 5.   Conversion scale for 0Fahrenheit and 0Celsius.     The metric system uses degrees Celsius (Centigrade) for temperature. Figure 5 provides a conversion of degrees Fahrenheit (0F) to degrees Celsius (0C). For greater precision, conversion can be done mathematically as follows:     To convert degrees Fahrenheit (0F) into degrees Celsius (0C), subtract 32 and multiply by 5/9. To convert degrees Celsius (0C) into degrees Fahrenheit (0F), multiply by 9/5 and add 32.     CULTURAL RECOMMENDATIONS FOR SPECIFIC CROPS     Cultural recommendations and insect and disease preventive control programs follow for each major flower crop. If adopted as the basis for production programs, many cultural, disease, and insect problems will be kept at a minimum. Descriptions of and control measures for insects and diseases of specific flower crops are provided in Cornell Recommendations for Commercial Floriculture Crops, Part II: Disease, Pest, and Weed Control. See page 4 for source of this publication.     AFRICAN VIOLET     Saintpaulta ionantha     The African violet has a tolerance of low light intensity, warm temperature, and a relatively dry atmosphere which places it in high consumer demand as an excellent flowering plant for the home.     Varieties     The African violet is available in single and double varieties of many colors.     Light intensity     Low light intensity is necessary for optimum flowering. While young plants can be grown with a minimum of 800 footcandles of light, mature plants flower best with 1000 to 1500 footcandles. Too much light bleaches and burns foliage. With insufficient light, plants remain vegetative and develop spindling petioles.     Plants can be grown with artificial light alone using either a combination of natural white and daylight fluorescent lamps, a combination of cool white and warm white, or Gro-lux lamps alone. Place the plants 8 to 10 inches from the light source, and use a day-length of at least 12 hours, preferably 18 hours.     Day-length response. No apparent response.     Temperature     Grow at 650-700F. Temperatures less than 550F cause poor leaf color and distortion. Plants are easily damaged by chilling.     Soil mixture     Mix should be high in organic matter, light, and porous. Peat-lite mixes are excellent; see page 13 for recipes.     Fertilization program     For nutrient levels see page 12. Delicate root system is easily damaged by fertilizers. Use dilute fertilization with each watering, or apply half the usual rates. Keep soluble salts below a reading of 150 K x 10~5.     Water     Use automatic pot-watering system. Overhead irrigation water, if used, must be 650~706F because colder water causes permanent spotting and discoloration on contact with  foliage.     Preventive control program     Sterilize growing medium, benches, tools, watering systems, and used pots. Do not subirrigate. Obtain clean stock plants from reliable sources.     References     Handbook on Gesneriads (African Violets, Gloxinias and Their Relatives). Plants and Gardens, vol. 23, no. I. Spring 1967. Available from Brooklyn Botanic Garden, 1000 Washington Avenue, Brooklyn, New York 1 1225. $1.25.     25     
    
chla7134041_1971_1_25

END OF IMAGE INFO
25
0025
0026
00000026.jpg

     
     ANNUALS AND BEDDING PLANTS     ANNUALS AND BEDDING PLANTS     The wholesale value of annuals and bedding plants among flower crops is higher than that of cut roses or carnations and is topped only by chrysanthemums. Although annuals and bedding plants are generally considered a spring and early summer crop for local markets in the northeastern United States, the season may extend for the entire year in other areas of the nation. Market demand may offer the opportunity to produce several crops timed for shipment to distant areas with earlier or later planting seasons. Pansies are a major crop of many bedding plant growers. Their culture for the most part is the same as that of annuals and bedding plants.     Varieties     Each of the many species of plants grown as bedding plants has numerous varieties. Growers should visit university and commercial trial gardens to determine which are best for their purposes.     Plant containers     The most popular containers hold 6 to 9 plants each. Customer convenience, attractiveness, ease of handling, soil capacity, effect on plant growth, and cost must all be considered in selecting a container. Research on petunias showed that plants grew larger and bloomed earlier in larger containers. See "References."     Propagation     Grow from seed. The following adaptation of Peat-lite Mix A is recommended for seed germination only. Use regular Mix A formula for growing plants.     Shredded German or Canadian sphagnum     peat moss                                                      1/2 bu     Horticultural vermiculite #2, 3, or 4             1/2 bu     Calcium nitrate                                                 1 level Tbsp     20% powdered superphosphate                      2 level Tbsp     Ground limestone (not hydrated lime)          5 level Tbsp     If you do not add calcium nitrate as recommended, then after seedlings germinate, water once with 20-20-20 fertilizer, I tsp per gal water. Use nonfertilized tap water for subsequent watering.     To ensure good germination, thoroughly wet the mix, prior to sowing seed, by placing the plant container filled with mix to soak m a shallow pan of water. When the top of the mix is moist, remove the container, and sow seed.     Seeds can be germinated in the greenhouse or in a germinator, that is, a room or unit where a uniform 650~70*F can be maintained and artificial lighting provided as follows: eight 40-wait, 4*foot fluorescent tubes evenly spaced across a 3 foot -wide bed to provide about 27 watts per square fool. Warm white, cool white, natural white, and daylight fluorescent lamps used alone or in combination give equal success. Although effective, special     "plant-growing lamps" are not necessary. A usual arrangement is to employ either a combination of warm white and cool white lamps or a combination of natural white and daylight lamps, and to alternate the 2 types of lamps in each combination across the bench. Packs or flats in which seeds are sown should be placed 8 inches below the lamps; this is a critical distance, be accurate. Use a time clock to program the lights for at least a 14-hour day, usually 8:00 A.M. 10:00 P.M. Faster growth occurs with an 18-hour day, and a 24-hour day can be safely used. See "References."     After germination, transplant seedlings as soon as first true leaves appear; delay results in hardened growth. Seedlings germinated in artificial light are ready to transplant after 2 weeks, but should be gradually acclimated to natural light and day length over a 2- to 3-day period.     Light intensity     Full sunlight. A few species such as impatiens and coleus which are eventually planted in shaded outdoor areas may better be grown in less than full sunlight.     Day-length response     Few show photoperiodic response. Certain varieties of petunia produce more "breaks" under short day conditions, a response which in the future may prove useful in growth habit control. Long days speed flowering and cause long stems in petunias.     Temperature     For seed germination  650700F For growing  580 F for most rapid maturity For   hardening  or  slowing  growth  as   low  as  400 F (Below 500 F disease problems may be intensified; absorption of nutrients is slowed.)     Soil composition     Since bedding plants are grown in shallower containers than other flower crops, a porous, well-drained soil mixture is even more important. A combination of 1/3 soil, 1/3 vermiculite or perlite, and 1/3 sphagnum peat moss is satisfactory.     Peat-lite mixes are recommended because they are light, they remain uniform, and they give the grower total control of nutrition. See "Soil and Fertilizers," page 12 for recipes and Cornell Information Bulletin 43 for detailed information on peat-lite mixes.     Fertilization program     Bedding plant growth is closely controlled by applications of nutrients. See page 14 for recommended levels. Because levels are difficult to maintain in the small soil volume of packs, frequent light applications of fertilizer or fertilization at each watering is recommended, Keep soluble salts below a reading of K x 10" s.     26     
    
chla7134041_1971_1_26

END OF IMAGE INFO
26
0027
00000027.jpg

     
     ANNUALS AND BEDDING PLANTS - ASTER     Water     Newly transplanted seedlings have a high water requirement. Once plants are established, maintain moderate moisture levels. Excesses cause lush, soft growth. Withholding water hardens plants and checks growth. When planting in containers, leave at least a V4-inch reservoir for water on top.     Growth regulators     BNine is registered for use on bedding plants. It has successfully retarded growth of petunias and certain other bedding plants as a foliar spray at concentrations of 0.25% to 1.00%. Petunias are sprayed with 0.25% or 0.50% solution 7 weeks after sowing or when the plants are approximately the size of a silver dollar. Petunia varietal response varies considerably; make trial applications first. Use .501.0% BNine solutions for salvia, zinnia, verbena, coleus, dahlia, and aster about 68 weeks after sowing. See label for directions. BNine should be timed as a part of a planned production program. It is ineffective as an emergency treatment used late in the season to control height.     Storage of seedlings     Storage allows seedlings to be held at the ideal size until the grower has time to transplant or, in the case of cut flower crops, to bench them. Procedure:       Germinate seed as recommended.       Use new or sterilized containers and a rigid sanitation program.       Place seed flats or pans in a 350 to 400F refrigerator when ideal size for transplanting or benching is reached; it is not necessary to reduce temperature gradually.       Light for 14 hours per day with a combination of daylight and cool white fluorescent tubes 12 inches above the plants. Light intensity should be 250 foot-candles, that supplied by three 40-watt tubes.       Seedlings stored for 12 weeks can be used directly from the refrigerator; those stored for longer periods should be placed in a shaded location at 500 to 550 F for 24 hours before transplanting.     Plants successfully stored for 6 weeks: alyssum, aster, browallia, dianthus, geranium, lobelia, marigold, petunia, salvia, snapdragon, stock. Plants successfully stored for 2 weeks or less: ageratum, balsam, cineraria, cosmos, pepper, tomato. Plants known not to tolerate storage: coleus, zinnia.     Preventive control program     Sanitation in the bedding plant operation is essential for disease prevention. Use sterile mixes or sterilize mixtures. Sterilize tools, containers, benches, and equipment. Ample     spacing, careful watering, full light intensity, adequate ventilation coupled with careful temperature control, and fungicidal treatment of seed are essential for disease prevention.     References     Cornell Peat-lite Mixes for Commercial Plant Growing. Cornell Information Bulletin 43.     The Cornell Automated Plant Grower. Cornell Information Bulletin 40.     Annual Flowers for New York State. Cornell Information Bulletin 93.     Bedding Plants, A Manual on the Culture, Insects, Diseases, Economics and Breeding of Bedding Plants. John W. Mastalerz, editor. Available from Department of Horticulture, The Pennsylvania State University, University Park, Pennsylvania. $2.00     "Progress Report on Growing Pot Plants and Bedding Plants in Artificial Media." J.W. Boodley. New York State Flower Growers Bulletin 170: 14.     "Petunias for Sale 8 Weeks after Potting.\'* J.G. Seeley. New York State Flower Growers Bulletin 1 70: 1, 58.     "Starting Annuals Under Fluorescent Lights." James W.     Boodley. New York State Flower Growers Bulletin 189.     August 1961. "Influence of Container Size on Petunia Growth.\'* James     W. Boodley. New York State Flower Industries Bulletin     I.July 1970.     "Guidelines for the Germination of Annual, Pot Plant and Ornamental Herb Seeds, Parts 1 3." H.M. Cathcy. Florists* Review vol. 144, no. 3742, (August 21, 1969): 21-23, 58-60; no. 3743 (August 28, 1969): 18-20, 52, 53; vol. 144, no. 3744 (September 4, 1969): 26-29, 75-77.     "Programmed Scheduling of Seedlings/* R.N. Freeman. Florists* Review vol. 149, no. 3873 (February 24, 1972): 19-24,67-72.     ASTER     Callistephus chinensis Asters, cut flowers once widely grown both indoors and out, arc now produced by only a few specialists in New York State. For this reason only very general recommendations are given here.     Varieties     Wide selection available. Consult your seedsman.     Propagation     Grow from seed. See "Annuals and Bedding Plants.**     Light intensity.  Full sunlight.     27     
    
chla7134041_1971_1_27

END OF IMAGE INFO
27
0028
00000028.jpg

     
     ASTER - AZALEA     Day-length response     Flower buds initiate when stems elongate, the latter occurring at 15 hours or more of day length at temperatures less than 700 F. To ensure elongation, use 5 foot-candles of light for 4 hours from August I to May 15. See page 6 for lighting instructions.     Temperature. Grow at 600 F.     Soil composition and fertilization program See pages 12  15.     Water     Growth is easily checked by lack of water. Automatic watering is recommended.     Preventive control program     Outdoors, use new area each year or sterilize soil annually, preferably with steam; grow in clothhouse (22 threads per inch). Use wilt-resistant varieties when possible.     AZALEA     Azaleas were considered a spring-flowering potted plant until recently. But new varieties and the use of precision production techniques now make it possible to flower them throughout the year. High consumer acceptance of the azalea as a durable potted plant is likely to make it one of the major potted crops of the future.     Varieties     Azaleas used in greenhouse production are varieties of 2 species primarily:     Rhododendron indicum the large-flowered varieties known in the trade as "Indicas."     H, obtusum var. amoenum the smaller-flowered Kurume azaleas.     As plant breeders have developed hybrid varieties of these and other species, the term t4lndica" and "Kurume" have tome to refer to large and small flower size, respectively, rather than to parentage.     Propagation     Azalea propagation is by cuttings. This phase of production is increasingly done by specialists who offer growers either small potted plants or bed-grown liners for growing on. or market-size plants in bud essentially ready for fnmng.     Light intensity     Grow it\\ full light intensity in the Held. However, some suppliers produce liners under light shade to maintain soft.     active growth and recommend that their plants be grown in the greenhouse under a minimum light reduction equiv-    ^^ alent  to   1   layer of cheesecloth or saran or other shade    yfj which transmits 25003500 footcandles. Full light intensity is recommended 68 weeks after final pinch. When moved  from storage into  the greenhouse  for forcing, a heavy temporary shade is applied to the glass initially and allowed to wash off gradually. This practice reduces water loss from the leaves when the roots are rather inactive in the soil ball and cannot absorb sufficient water to replace    J| that lost by the warmer foliage. Failure to shade results in    ^P leaf drop. For the same reason, a heavy shade is used when holding azaleas in a greenhouse at 500 F or less.     Azaleas can be forced under artificial light. Quality and foliage color are equal to greenhouse-grown plants, but flower color is lighter. Use lighting procedures outlined under "Bulb Crops," page 31.     Day-length response     Some azalea varieties respond to day length, but research is needed to clarify commercial applications. Short days tend to stimulate flower bud initiation.     Temperature     Azaleas initiate flower buds at temperatures above 650 F, but develop buds below 600 F. Once budded, pre-cool plants to be flowered in December and January at 400F for 6 weeks; later crops at 480-500F, also for 6 ^ weeks. Precooling can be done in a greenhouse shaded to allow 5060% normal light intensity or in refrigerated storage. In refrigerated storage, at temperature of 400 F, use 20 footcandles of light for 12 hours per day to prevent leaf drop. Plants are forced in the greenhouse or under artificial light (see "Light Intensity," above) at 600F with a maximum forcing temperature of 750 F to 800 F. Kurume types normally take 4 weeks, and Indicum types, 6 weeks to force. Early autumn frosts are harmful to flower buds; give adequate protection.     Soil composition     Peat moss 100% or a mixture of 50% soil and 50% peat moss by volume. pH 4.55.5; higher pH may cause leaf chlorosis.     Fertilization program                                                                    #g     See page 12 for nutrient levels. Use fertilizers with acid residue such as ammonium sulfate, ammonium nitrate, or urea. If pH tends to run high, use gypsum instead of limestone as a source of calcium. Maintain soluble salts below   100  K  x   10"5.  See  page   16.     Water     Keep moist at all times when in active growth. Disease   ^P development  is  more severe  under high  moisture.  Use water discriminately. Do not carry too moist in storage.     28     
    
chla7134041_1971_1_28

END OF IMAGE INFO
28
0029
00000029.jpg

     
     AZALEA - BEDDING PLANTS - BEGONIA     Year-round flowering program     Year-round flowering is possible; it is now a matter of developing a year-round market and grower experience. Although exact program requirements vary with the variety, approximately 5 months are required to produce a crop.     General procedure. Starting with a pinched, shaped plant, grow for 6 weeks at 600 F under long days (16 hours); follow with 6 weeks under short days (9 hours) at 650 F, and then 6 weeks in a 480 F cooler with 12 hours of 20 footcandles of fluorescent or incandescent light per day. This plant can then be forced at 650 F in about 4 weeks. Information about varieties for this program can be obtained from your horticultural supplier.     Your Cooperative Extension agent can give you more information.     Growth regulators     For height and shape control. Cycocel and BNine help control the height and shape of azalea plants by improving uniformity of shoot growth. They improve bud initiation on varieties with rank, irregular growth. Try on a limited scale on various varieties before extensive use. Both can delay flowering. BNine reduces flower size and greatly increases petal count. Cycocel reduces plant size more than BNine and its effects are longer lasting. Apply 46 weeks after final pinch when new shoots are 1  1 lh inches long; apply again 1 week later. The recommended rates are Cycocel (11.8%) 2.4 oz per gal of water, or BNine (5%) 4.0 oz per gal of water. Spray early in the morning when leaves are turgid. Apply to point of run-off, but do not allow it to drip on soil. Both Cycocel and BNine are registered for use on azaleas.     For Christmas flowering. Grow plants in pots during the summer. Spray BNine (5%) or Cycocel (11.8%) at rates given under "Height and shape control** between July 510; repeat in 1 week. Give short days by covering with black cloth from 4 P.M. to 8 A.M. for 4 weeks starting 1 month after first spray. Use storage treatments recommended under "Temperature." At forcing time, 1 spray of regulator will control excess vegetative side shoots. Follow manufacturer\'s directions for this treatment. Limited trial is recommended before extensive use.     For pinching. Some compounds (Off-Shoot-O, etc.) developed for chemical pruning do a reasonably good job of "pinching" azaleas. Make limited trials to determine effectiveness and safety on various varieties and stages of development. See "Growth Regulators," page 22 for more information.     Physiological disorders     Chlorosis (yellow leaves with green veins) is caused by a lack of iron which can be caused by high pH, high soluble salts, low soil temperature, insufficient root action, nematodes, and poor drainage. The cure is elimination of the     cause,  but   application   of  iron   helps.  See  table   10  lor materials and rates.     Foliage reddens when light intensity is high and soil nitrogen and (or) soil temperature are low. Reduced root activity caused by factors cited under chlorosis may also contribute.     Preventive control program     Purchase planting stock from reliable sources. Carefully examine plants upon receipt for symptoms of Cylindro-cladium blight before placing in greenhouse or field. See Cornell Recommendations for Commercial Floriculture Crops, Part II: Disease, Pest, and Weed Control for description of symptoms.     References     "Forcing Bulbs and Azaleas." R.W. Langhans. New York State Flower Growers Bulletin 143. November 1957.     "The Yoder Azalea Approach to Improved Profits." Grower Circle News 61. April 1968. Yoders Inc., Barberton, Ohio 44203.     BEDDING PLANTS     See   "Annuals   and   Bedding   Plants,"   page   26.     BEGONIA     Species of begonias can be grown as potted flowering plants, foliage plants, or bedding plants.     Varieties     Begonia semperflorens  Fibrous-rooted or wax-leaf begonia is the bedding begonia used in gardens and containers. Single- and double-flowered forms occur in white and shades of pink and red, and in both green and bronze foliage.     Begonia socotrana  Semituberous or Christmas begonia, which is very floriferous, is grown as a potted plant for Christmas sales. Varieties include \'Melior,* \'Lady Mac,* and *Marjorie Gibbs.\'     Begonia tuberhybrida ~ Tuberous-rooted begonia is sold in spring as seedlings or started tubers for bedding and window box use.     Elatior begonias  Elatior begonias are a recent introduction from Europe. They are from crosses of Begonia tuberhybrida hybrids with Begonia socotrana. The late Otto Rieger of Nurtingen, Germany, introduced several varieties between 1955 and 1965, The trade refers to these as "Rieger Elatior begonias."     Propagation     Begonia semperflorens and B. socotrana are grown from seed or cuttings. B. tuberhybrida is from seed, tubers, or     29     
    
chla7134041_1971_1_29

END OF IMAGE INFO
29
0030
00000030.jpg

     
     BEGONIA - BULB CROPS     The  Rieger  Elatior begonia  a colorful new floriculture potted crop.     cuttings.  Rieger Elatioi begonias arc grown from leal 01 stem cuttings depending on variety     Light intensity     U is iiMi.ilK grown in full sunlight which increase* the bronze foliar color in some varieties. hade mav be desirable during intense light.     ft -.. \'Irtinu and H. tuherlixhrida require shade- from \\pnl  I  l.. September I Y     Rieger Elatioi begoniai require shading during intense light to pie vent flower scorching, leal marginal burning, and esxesaivei) l]mil[* foliage. Research shows thai the plants will tolerate lull iiunmei sun tl temperatuxei sre controlled with (an and pad cooling.     Ihm shade prevents foliar burning following transplanting or repotting ..I all begonis t\\ pes.     Day length response     st  7(i0 I  .]! less regardlesi ol da) length.     H. socotrana initiates and develops buds under short-da)   conditions   which   occur   naturally   about   Octobei     Id    20.   Five  Iim.Ii .mdles ol   light   foi   S  hours during the middle ol the night prevents flowering.     rhybrida k:]"ws and flowers under long days and indei short da\\s. dive long-da) conditions to induce winter flou     Rieger                                    appear    to   he   onl)    slight!)     photopenodii               black iloih to shorten days March     through   Septembi                               rnpait,  higher quality     plants which flower more uniform!) and taster. Long days do  not   completely   prevent   flu Wiling,  but  supplemental 1 mber    through    April   promotes   additional illation is lompleted   [              \\011r     supplier lor prodt*     Temperature     600 650 F for all types except Rieger Elatior begonias lot which suppliers recommend the following temperature regime:     Plant development in nurse bed       680  700 F During flower initiation                             650 F     After flower initiation     through maturity                          600630 F     Soil composition     Begonias require a porous well-drained soil containing 25% to 50% peat moss. Peat-lite mixes are excellent. See page 13 for recipes. Keep soluble salts readings less than 100 K x 1(TS.     Fertilization program     Begonias respond well to programs that supply dilute amounts of fertilizer with each watering.     Water     Keep begonias moist at all times. A shortage of water hardens growth and dries foliage. Keep water off foliage to prevent spread of diseases and, in Rieger Elatior types, foliar nematodes. Begonias do well on capillary benches.     Preventive control program     Sanitation is ver) important. Steam propagation beds before each batch of cuttings. Provide good air circulation and give maximum spacing to potted plants. Sterilize soil mixtures and pots. Do not splash foliage during watering.     References     Rieger Begonia Manual. Mikkelsen\'s Inc., P.O. Box 1536, Ashtabula, Ohio 14004. A 1 omplete manual of varieties, culture, production schedules, and insect and disease problems.     Series of articles on the culture of Rieger Elatior begonias. /\'. nnsxlvania Flower Growers Bulletin nos. 263 and 264. May and June 1973.     "Simplified    Instructions    for   Rieger     Elatior     Begonia     Growth." James Mikkelscn. Florists\' Review vol.  153,     no. S961 (Oct. 4. 1973):36, 72-78. "Rieger   Elatioi    Begonia  Research at Penn. State." J.W.     White,   I.   rlolcomb,  and   I.  Maczko. Florists\' Review     vol. 153, no. 1957 (Nov. I, IS     BULB CROPS     Daffodil, Hyacinth, Ins, Narcissus, Tulip (Various species ol Hyacinthus, /n\\. Nitrcisms, and     Fulifm)     Bulb crops sre  grown  as cut  flowers and potted plants tale Irom Christmas through late spring. The Holland     
    
chla7134041_1971_1_30

END OF IMAGE INFO
30
0031
00000031.jpg

     
     BULB CROPS     Bulb Forcer\'s Guide (see "References") gives detailed forcing programs for specific varieties. It is indispensable for growers of these crops.     Varieties     Selection of proper varieties for specific purposes and periods of the year is essential. Your horticultural supplier can assist you.     Receipt and handling of bulbs     Bulbs for forcing are grown in Holland, the western United States, and Japan. If bulbs are to be planted within 23 weeks, it is necessary upon arrival to remove bags from shipping containers for ventilation; for longer storage, remove bulbs from bags and place in shallow, wire-bottom trays. In either case, store at 550630F; 630F is optimum. Precooled bulbs, except for iris, contain a flower bud which can be observed upon cutting the bulb in half. A healthy bud is yellow; brown-tinged or shriveled petals will be apparent if bulbs have overheated in transit. Inspect a sample of each variety upon arrival. Growers who pre-cool their own bulbs are referred to Holland Bulb Forcer\'s Guide for detailed procedures.     Containers     A vigorous root system is essential to bulb growth. Use flats at least 4 inches deep for tulips and irises and 5 to 6 inches deep for daffodils and hyacinths. Use clay, plastic, or polystyrene bulb pans.     Soil composition and fertility     A well-grown bulb contains all the nutrients required for forcing. The soil mix then serves only to support the plant physically and to hold moisture. Use one of the mixes on page 12. Soluble salts readings should be less than 100 K x 10"s; pH 5.5-7.0. Cornell Information Bulletin 43, Cornell Peat-lite Mixes for Commercial Plant Growing, contains recommendations for use of peat-lite mixes for bulbs. Do not add fertilizers to bulb soils; fertilization during forcing is not necessary.     Water     Keep soil moist and well drained. Automatic watering systems are effective. Avoid moving flats that have rooted heavily into soil below; if moved, provide ample moisture for 710 days thereafter.     Growth regulators     Research on growth regulators on bulb crops has not progressed sufficiently to allow recommendations for commercial use. Except for ancymidol (A-Rest), growth regulators are not very effective on bulb crops. At the present time, ancymidol is not registered for use on bulb crops other than Foster lilies.     Light intensity     Bulbs are forced in full light except during the first 3 to 5 days after removal from the rooting room or outdoor storage. Tulips forced in late spring may require some shade. Low light intensity can result in blindness in iris; space bulbs to be grown in winter months at least 3 inches apart each way.     Tulips, hyacinths, daffodils, and narcissi can be forced entirely under artificial light with quality and size of plant equal to or better than those grown in the greenhouse. Time is somewhat shorter. Use cool white fluorescent lights at 10 watts per square foot, for example a 40-watt tube for 4 square feet. Height above bench level is 2 feet for hyacinths, 3 feet for taller plants. Light for 1 6 hours a day. Maintain 60o~700F; the higher the temperature, the faster the bulbs force and the shorter will be the stems. Ventilation is necessary to reduce temperature when lights are on.     Day-length response     Bulb crops have no apparent response to photoperiod.     Temperature     Bulb crops require specific temperature treatments at various stages to develop roots and flower buds. Treatment is provided in controlled-temperature rooting rooms, in indoor bulb storages without controlled temperature, or by burial outdoors for natural treatment. It is now possible to follow forcing programs tailored to specific varieties. It is indispensable to do so in today\'s competitive market. Recommendations are given in the Holland Bulb Forcer\'s Guide for rooting room and outdoor storage temperatures for varieties of each bulb crop. Growers whose indoor bulb storages lack temperature control should adapt their schedule from those given for rooting rooms. They should also consider installing temperature-control equipment.     Temperature for daffodils and narcissi     Bulbs stored outdoors are planted in mid-October for the earliest flowering to be taken into the greenhouse in mid-January for Valentine\'s Day. They are planted in early to mid-November for Easter and later flowering. Do not force until flower buds are at the top of the bulb. Bury no later than 3 weeks before hard frosts. See the Holland Bulb Forcer s Guide for rooting room and forcing programs tor specific varieties.     Temperature for hyacinths     For outdoor rooting, plant no later than 3 weeks before hard frost, mid-October for Valentine\'s Day crop, mid-November for Easter. Check progress of roots and sprouts 4 weeks and 2 weeks before bringing pots into the greenhouse. If root and sprout growth is slow, move to 480-520F dark location for about  14 days. Bring into green*     31     
    
chla7134041_1971_1_31

END OF IMAGE INFO
31
0032
00000032.jpg

     
     BULB CROPS - CALCEOLARIA     house when roots and sprouts are well developed. See the Holland Hulh Forcenx Guide for rooting room and forcing programs for specific varieties.     "Spitting" or flower hud toppling occurs in some varieties during the latter part of the rooting period and early forcing period. To prevent the problem, ensure good drainage in beds and pots, do not allow temperature during rooting to exceed 480 F, protect bulbs and move them quickly when bringing into greenhouse from outside storage, keep at 500-550F during first "4 days in greenhouse and do not water. Normal temperature and watering is given thereafter.     Temperature for irises     Bulbs precooled by the jobber can be immediately planted and forced at 480 to 600 F. Flat and store non-precooled bulbs at 480 to 500 F until foliage is 2 to 2lA inches tall; then force at 480 to 600F. A higher forcing temperature can be used for larger bulbs and (or) in bright weather. Higher temperatures under low light intensity or with small bulbs may result in bud "blast."     Temperature for tulips     For outdoor rooting, plant and bury bulbs October 15 20 for Valentine\'s Day crop, and early November for March 1 3 May crops. Cool (490 F) conditions favor rooting; warmer temperatures or freezing are unfavorable. Cover beds with straw or hay before freezing weather occurs. Bring into the greenhouse approximately 3 weeks before desired (lowering date. Dig several trial pots and take corrective action as recommended for hyacinths if roots and shoots are not properly developed. See the Holland Bulb Forcer** Guide for rooting room and forcing programs for specific varieties.     Forcing precooled, dry-stored tulip bulbs. Quality cut tulips can be produced from bulbs precooled dry in cases before direct planting dnd forcing in greenhouse benches. Hie method eliminates the need to flat, place in a rooting room, or bury outdoors. Bulbs are held at 680 F from receipt until stamens and pistils are visible in a sliced bulb. At this point the temperature is dropped to 600 650F until 10 12 weeks before planting, at which time the temperature is reduced to 41 *F for this final storage period.     The tulips are stored in the original crates in which they are received. Keep storage dry enough to prevent mold. Plant bulbs as soon as possible after removal from storage; watt no longer than 1 week. Prepare ground benches with at least 5, but preferably 1 2, inches of sterilized or new soil to ensure adequate moisture supply. Space bulbs 2Vi to 3 inches apart, and plant with bulb tops no more than I inch deep. Force at 500 540 F nights for the first 2 weeks, then 35*~-600F until bloom. Ixnvcr temperatures yield better, but later, flowers; higher temperatures speed flowering, but flower stems may be soft. After the early crop is finished, pull bulbs, steam soil, and plant again.     The benches of bulbs can be covered with black cloth the first 2 weeks to increase stem length. This, however, is not usually necessary, especially with bulbs planted in ground beds in plastic greenhouses. Be sure that the plants have adequate water at all times.     Grow varieties that are suitable for 41 0F storage. Several that have looked good in past seasons are \'London\', *Apeldoorn\\ \'Gudoshnik\', \'President Kennedy\', Taul Richter\', \'Jewel of Spring\', Tikant*, \'Golden Apel-doorn\', and others recommended for this program by bulb suppliers.     Holding advanced potted tulips. Potted tulips with flowers that are too advanced can be held in tight bud at 350 F in a shaded greenhouse, shed, or cooler.     Preventive control program     Inspect bulb shipments carefully for presence of diseases and insects. Use a thorough sanitation program in rooting rooms, storage areas, and greenhouses. Use new or sterilized ingredients for soil mixes. Heat and ventilate to keep foliage dry. Use rodent prevention practices given in Cornell Recommendations for Commercial Floriculture Crops, Part II: Disease, Pest, and Weed Control.     References     Holland Bulb Forcer\'s Guide. A.A. DeHertogh. Netherlands Flower-Bulb Institute, Inc., Suite 6217, Five World   Trade Center, New  York, New  York     10048.     Rooting Room Planning Guide. R.J. Patterson. Department of Agricultural Engineering, Michigan State University, East Lansing, Michigan 48823. A.E.J.S. No. 271.     Cut Tulips for Commercial Growers from Dry-stored, Precooled Bulbs. Cornell Extension Bulletin 1221.     CALCEOLARIA     Calceolaria herbeohybrida and C. integrifolia     Culture     Hybrids of both species are used in the trade. C. herbeohybrida types are started from seeds planted July to September depending on ultimate plant size desired. June seedings yield 6-inch potted plants, later sowing 4- to 5-inch potted plants. C integrifolia is propagated by cuttings taken July to November, timing again determined by size of plant desired. Use full light intensity November through March; shade remainder of year to prevent leaf burn. Calceolarias form flower buds below 600 F. Plant size can be increased by growing at 600 F until desired size is reached. Above 600 F growth becomes "soft." Plants bloom 2yA to 4 months after temperature is dropped below 600 F; time required to bloom decreases as spring approaches. Use soil and nutrient recommendations given on page 12. Keep uniformly moist.     32     
    
chla7134041_1971_1_32

END OF IMAGE INFO
32
0033
00000033.jpg

     
     CALLA - CARNATION     CALLA     White and pink callas are grown principally for cut flowers. Yellow callas are grown as potted plants for spring sales. Callas flower continuously throughout the year unless forced to go dormant by drying.     Varieties     Zantedeschia aethiopica  White calla     var. minor  12"16" tall     var.   Godefreyana  a   dwarf,   compact,   more   flor-iferous variety of Z. aethiopica Z. Elliottiana  Yellow or golden calla Z. Rehmannii  Pink or rose calla     Propagation     White callas are propagated by division of fleshy "bulbs" (rhizomes). Yellow and pink are propagated from seed and by division.     Light intensity     From September to June callas grow best in full sunlight. During the summer use shade to keep maximum intensity about 5000 footcandles.     Day-length response     Day length does not influence the flowering of calla. Buds initiate and develop under conditions favorable for vegetative growth.     Temperature     White 550 F nights, 700 F bright days, 600 F cloudy days. Yellow and pink  600 F nights, days same as for white.     Soil composition     A well-drained, porous soil helps minimize soft rot problems. Although callas are often grown directly in benches, production in large pots makes it easier to check or eliminate soil-borne diseases.     Fertilization program     See p. 12 for nutrient levels. Excessive nitrogen causes lush, soft growth. Keep soluble salts readings less than 150 K x 10~s. Avoid manure and other highly organic fertilizers.     Water     Keep moist but not overwatered. Large amounts of water are required if callas are to be flowered through the summer. Plants begin to go dormant if even slight drying occurs.     Year-round production program     It is not necessary to dry callas during the summer. The August-September wedding market warrants continuing production. Shade to provide 5000 footcandles light intensity (one-half June intensity) and maintain regular watering and fertilization.     Preventive control program     Use preventive program for root rot. If old plants are healthy, do not buy new rhizomes. Keep newly purchased plants isolated from healthy old plants until you are sure they are free of disease.     CARNATION     Dia n t h us ca ry op h y 11 us     Producers of carnations face effective competition from Colorado, California, and Latin American countries including Columbia and Equador; so skillful management is essential. Some New York State growers continue to produce the crop year-round whereas others are growing only "one-crop" carnations timed for production at holidays and other peak market periods.     Varieties     Many varieties, representing a broad range of colors and types including miniatures and spray types, are available. Your horticultural supplier can assist you in your selection. Consider your market\'s requirements as you select varieties.     Propagation     Carnations are propagated from cuttings. Reputable plant propagation specialists offer rooted cuttings which are culture-indexed for systemic fungal and bacterial pathogens.     The recommended procedure is to purchase rooted cuttings from a specialist Firm which either culture-indexes or initiates nucleus stock by the meristem method with subsequent indexing. Although such cuttings are probably the most free from disease at first, they are still susceptible to infection; complete sanitation and other disease prevention measures are just as important for them as lor any other cuttings.     Growers who propagate their own cuttings should use the mother block system which is aimed primarily at the control of Fusarium and bacterial wilts of carnations and is not effective in controlling other common carnation diseases. Mother blocks can be established by purchasing culture-indexed stock from an outside source. The mother block should be isolated from other growing operations and used only for cutting production. See that it is kept free from disease. Cuttings taken from the mother block should  always  be  broken off and never cut off.  Rigid     33     
    
chla7134041_1971_1_33

END OF IMAGE INFO
33
0034
00000034.jpg

     
     CARNATION     sanitation must be enforced throughout growing operations, and all propagating media must he thoroughly steam sterilized. Planting media must he as clean as the cuttings.     Light intensity     Carnation plants not yet in (lower can be grown in full sunlight at all times. Flowering crops may require light shade in the summer months. Some shading for summer temperature control may he necessary, but cooling systems arc preferred for this purpose. Remove shade by September 1 ."] because low light produces weak flower stems. January and February blooms often exhibit such weakness.     Day-length response     Long days speed flower bud initiation. Lighting can be used to flush a crop for a holiday or before the crop is to be remoxed. Two weeks of lighting gives a flush of flowers approximately 4 months later. Your Cooperative Extension agent cm provide details. Experience and trial are needed to determine the ideal lighting schedule for specific areas.     Photoperiod control is recommended for "one-crop" carnations. See "One-Crop Carnation Program."     Temperature     Standard tarnations Night temperatures of 500 ~ 550 F, day temperatures 100 to 150 warmer. Use 550 F for young plants and during brighter times of the year for carnations at all stages of development. Accurate maintenance of uniform temperature reduces calyx splitting. Proper temperature and humidity-control ventilation reduces Hotrytis.     Miniature   carnations          Night    temperatures    of   550     -60CF, day temperatures 10-150 higher.     Fan and pad cooling is recommended for crops that are to flower from May through September.     Soil composition     Use a porous, well-drained mixture containing at least 25% peat moss by volume.     Fertilization program     Apply fertilizers with each watering. Use proportioner equipment incorporated in an automatic watering system. Use calcium levels ol 150 ppm plus. Miniatures require somewhat higher levels of fertilization.     Boron deficiency can be corrected by applications of a boron fertilizer as prescribed in table 10. Do not apply more than I oz per 100 sq ft per year. Carnation leaf analysis service is available. Contact your Cooperative Extension agent or Department of Floriculture and Ornamental Horticulture, Cornell University, Ithaca, New York 14853.     Water     Keep soil constantly moist. Perimeter and plastic tube automatic watering systems are recommended.     Growth regulators     Cornell research shows that certain growth regulators reduce stem length and improve stem strength in carnation. Your Cooperative Extension agent can provide progress reports on this research.     Production systems     Standard carnation program. In most cases, cuttings are planted in late May or June, and plants removed one year later. Summer cooling, soil sterilization, and disease-free cuttings make it possible for growers to consider a second year of production.     "One-crop" carnation program. The basic steps for "one-crop" carnation programs have been worked out. This program is useful for producing quantities of desired colors for specific holidays. Basics of the program follow. Consult your Cooperative Extension agent and horticultural supplier for information on the program details. Use on trial basis.     1.   Select varieties which respond in the program. Your supplier can assist you.     2.   Plant 3 cuttings per sq ft, pinch and prune to 4 shoots per plant.     3.   Light the crop when new shoots produced following pinching are 1 to 2 inches long, and continue until the flower buds can be easily seen. Use the same light intensity as that for chrysanthemums. Turn the lights on at dark, and leave on long enough to achieve approximately an 18-hour day length, i.e. length of daylight plus lights should equal 18 hours.     4.   Grow at 550 nights. Higher temperatures can be used to speed flowering of the crop to make a holiday; higher temperatures do reduce quality.     5.   Timing schedules are given in New York State Flower Growers Bulletin 272 and commercial carnation manuals.     Miniature carnation program. Since plants of miniatures are usually less vigorous than standard plants, they are spaced closer at 4" x 6". Miniatures are grown at higher temperatures, 550-600F, and are fertilized and watered more frequently than standards. The center flower bud of each stem is removed when it is the size of a pea. Side buds then develop more uniformly. Harvest when 2 flowers are fully open and color is seen on a third. Exact stage of cutting should be determined by your market\'s demand.     Preventive control program     This minimum program is required. Purchase culture-indexed cuttings; use mother block system if doing own propagation. Use inside culture. Sterilize rooting medium, soil mixture, and benches. Grow in raised benches. Observe     34     
    
chla7134041_1971_1_34

END OF IMAGE INFO
34
0035
00000035.jpg

     
     CHRYSANTHEMUM     strict sanitation. Plant shallow. Bench banded or potted plants so that top half-inch or more of soil ball is above the level of bench soil.     References     Carnations, A Manual of the Culture, Insects and Diseases and Economics of Carnations. R.W. Langhans, editor. 1961. Available from Department of Floriculture and Ornamental Horticulture, Cornell University, Ithaca, New York 14853. $3.00. Make checks payable to Cornell University.     Carnation manuals and program guides. Available from horticultural suppliers.     "One-Crop Carnation Production." R.W. Langhans. New York State Flower Growers Bulletin 272. July 1968.     "Stock Plant Production for One-crop Carnations.,, R.W. Langhans. New York State Flower Growers Bulletin 272. July 1968.     "Timing One-Crop Carnations/\' Ralph Freeman and Arthur Bing. New York State Flower Growers Bulletin 272. July 1968.     "One-Crop Carnations: When to Pinch/* John Kumpf and R.W. Langhans. New York State Flower Growers Bulletin 292. March 1970.     "Nurse-bed, One-Crop Carnations." R.W. Langhans and John Kumpf. New York State Flower Growers Bulletin 293. April 1970.     CHRYSANTHEMUM     Chrysanthemum morifolium     Chrysanthemums are a major flower crop in New York State. Standard and Fuji "mums,** pompons, decoratives, and specialty varieties are grown as cut flowers and potted plants. Chrysanthemums are probably grown in more New York State ranges than any other crop. Only small acreages of outdoor production exist.     Varieties     Though one supplier offers more than 700 varieties, perhaps less than 50 account for 90 percent of the production. The selection is wide with a variety for every purpose. Consult your horticultural supplier.     Propagation     Propagation is by cuttings. Firms specializing in chrysanthemums offer rooted and unrooted cuttings culture-indexed for systemic fungal and bacterial pathogens. These sources are recommended unless growers have special reasons to develop their own propagation program.     Light intensity     Grow in full light. Standard mums, especially dark colors, require shading  from April  15 to October 15 to     prevent poor color development and "burning" of petals. Place a layer of cheesecloth 6 to 12 inches above the flowers. Pompons are less susceptible to damage, but shading of dark-colored varieties may be necessary in periods of high intensity.     Supplementary lighting using high intensity discharge (HID) lamps has been shown to increase quality ^ind shorten flowering time for winter-grown potted chrysanthemums. About 1000 footcandles are used for at least the first 6 weeks of production. Use on a trial basis first; your Cooperative Extension agent can provide details.     Day-length response     Most chrysanthemum cultivars initiate flower buds when day length is 14*/2 hours or less; but bud development occurs at 13l/2 hours, or less. In New York Stale, from about April 25 to August 15 day length must be artifically shortened to make chrysanthemums flower. Day length is naturally short enough the rest of the year to allow bud initiation and development; it must be artificially lengthened to prevent it. Since varieties vary in response, schedules should be planned accordingly. Procedures for providing artificial long days and short days are given on page 6.     Black cloth pulled in summer to shorten day length can cause high temperatures to build around the plant and delay bud development. Lift sides of the cloth at dark to let heat escape, or delay covering with cloth until later in the evening.     During high light intensity in June and July, use new cloth or cloth of double thickness to ensure adequate darkness.     For most varieties, black cloth need not be pulled through to flowering. Since varietal response varies, determine by trial for how short a period cloth is required before delay in flowering occurs. To do so, start with a 6-week black cloth treatment. In subsequent trials, reduce the period by %i week at a time, and carefully note number of days from beginning of black cloth treatment until flowering to find the optimum length of treatment.     Growers with many plants to cover should investigate equipment that automatically applies and removes black cloth.     "After-lighting," the use of long days after I weeks of short days, has resulted in increased flower size on standard mums. Since varieties respond differently, use on a trial basis initially. The procedure is as follows:     1.   After 4 weeks of short days, expose plants to long days by either (a) discontinuing use of black cloth (during the summer) or (b) reapplying lights (during the winter), using lighting recommendations on page 6.     2.   Continue the additional long days lor at least .\'i weeks; then return to short days for further flower bud development.     35     
    
chla7134041_1971_1_35

END OF IMAGE INFO
35
0036
00000036.jpg

     
     CHRYSANTHEMUM     Temperature     The chrysanthemum is very sensitive to temperature. Grow at an accurate 600 F night temperature. Variation causes delay in flowering or failure to flower. Keep day temperatures 100 to 150 above night temperatures, depending on variety, time of year, and stage of development. Varieties have different temperature requirements, a fact that should be considered at time of selection.     High temperature lightens the color intensity in dark varieties. Low temperature causes some white and other light-colored varieties to develop pink coloration.     Soil composition     Prepare soil as outlined on page 12. Peat-lite mixes have proved satisfactory for potted mums. Use on trial basis first. See page 1 3 for recipes.     Fertilization program     A regular fertilization program is essential for quality production. See page  1 4.     Pinching     Chrysanthemums are grown single stem or pinched depending on quality desired and other factors. Single-stem culture is often essential for high quality chrysanthemums under poor light conditions of winter. For pinched crops, remove the tip of the terminal shoot as soon as the plants begin growth, generally 7 to 14 days after planting. Use a soft pinch of about W in length. New lateral shoots develop quicker from soft pinches than from hard pinches. If side shoots are to be reduced to a given number, do so while they are small and succulent.     Disbudding and center flower removal     Disbud standards, Fuji\'s, and potted mums when lateral buds are large enough to handle. If done too soon, the job must be repeated more frequently; if done too late, unsightly scars and damage occur. Experience dictates the right time to disbud each variety. Researchers arc working on compounds for chemical pinching and disbudding of chrysanthemums. See page 23. Some pot mum growers have discontinued disbudding certain cultivars in favor of removing the center flower and allowing the laterals to bloom. Although this is done primarily for mass market sales, retail florists find this practice offers the opportunity for diversity in the type of potted mum available to the consumer. Cuhivar response varies; do on a trial basis before applying u; entire crops.     Some varieties of pompons are improved by removal of the center flower bud as soon as the majority of center buds in a bench are large enough to be removed easily.     Water     Maintain   a  uniform  moisture supply.  Although some     growers feel that a mild water stress immediately after bud set improves flower quality, use this practice on a trial basis before applying it to an entire crop.     Automatic watering is recommended for chrysanthemums. The systems described on page 10 have been used successfully. Incorporate a proportioner with the automatic watering system to mechanize fertilization.     Carbon dioxide     Some cultivars of chrysanthemum grown in carbon dioxide enriched atmosphere produce heavier stems, larger flowers, and bloom in less time than those grown in unenriched conditions; some show no response. Reports indicate that greatest benefit is gained during the period from planting to the start of short days and that carbon dioxide applied thereafter may not be worthwhile. See page 18.     Growth regulators     BNine and ancymidol (ARest) are registered for use on chrysanthemums. They are used commercially for quality control in cut and potted mums; BNine currently is more commonly used because it has been available for a number of years. Rates for BNine given in table 13 represent the following dilutions:     0.25% solution = 6 oz of B-Nine (5%) per gal 0.37% solution = 9 oz of B-Nine (5%) per gal 0.50% solution = 12 oz of B-Nine (5%) per gal     Read and follow manufacturer\'s label directions carefully. Do not mix B Nine with other chemicals. One gallon of solution treats a maximum of 150 6-inch pots. Consult commercial chrysanthemum manuals for specific variety treatments.     Ancymidol should be used for potted mums according to label instructions.     Preventive control program     Most diseases of glasshouse chrysanthemums are eliminated by using indexed planting stock, planting in well-drained sterilized soil, avoiding splashing, and maintaining low humidity. In the field, use indexed planting stock, select well-drained sites, sterilize the soil, and spray routinely for control of Septoria leafspot, Ascochyta, and Botrytis.     References     Diseases of Chrysanthemum. Cornell Information Bulletin 85.     Chrysanthemums, A Manual of the Culture, Diseases, Insects, and Economics of Chrysanthemums. R.W. Langhans, editor. 1964. Available from Department of Floriculture and Ornamental Horticulture, Cornell University, Ithaca, New York 14853. $3.00. Make checks payable to Cornell University.     Chrysanthemum manuals and program guides available from horticultural suppliers.     36     
    
chla7134041_1971_1_36

END OF IMAGE INFO
36
0037
00000037.jpg

     
     CINERARIA - CLERODENDRUM     Table 13. Recommendations for use of BNine on chrysanthemums     Purpose     Amount of B-Nine (5%) per 1 gal water     Timing of Application     Reduction of "necking" on standard varieties     9 oz for average varieties; 912 oz for vigorous,     When buds first reach disbudding size or no     grown for cut flowers or as potted plants.     tall varieties or during high temperature, black cloth periods.     later than 5 weeks prior to bloom date or 3 4 weeks after start o( black cloth. A must on \'Betsy Ross\' summer crops. Delays cut up to 1 days.     Height and form control on potted crops: Single stem     Pinched*, desired plant height 16" maximum in moderate temperature periods     In high temperature periods to help produce low breaks on plant.     12oz 6 oz     6 oz     3-4 weeks after planting     Apply to new shoots 10   14 days after pinch; second treatment 3 weeks later if needed. Princess Anne varieties require second spray if, after 5 weeks of short days, new stems have 11 or more leaves.     Apply to established cuttings prior to pinch.     Note: See "Chrysanthemums, Growth Regulators\'* page 36 for dilutions represented by these rates.     Proceedings  Pot Chrysanthemum School. October 2627, 1971. Ohio Agricultural Research and Developmental Center, Wooster, Ohio 44691.     "New Concepts in Potted Chrysanthemums." M.P. Novovesky and R.J. Hansel. New York State Flower Industries Bulletin 38 and 39. Sept. 1973 and Oct. 1973.     CINERARIA     Senecio cruentus     Cinerarias are grown as potted plants for spring holiday sales. The massive display of flowers of nearly every color and shade is spectacular.     Culture     Seeds are planted from June to October, and vegetative growth occurs during summer and fall. Six weeks at temperatures below 600 F are necessary for flower bud initiation, and flowers appear after another 8 weeks at 600 F or below. Timing of bloom is accomplished by maintaining temperatures above 600 F until about 14 weeks before desired bloom. Grow in full light; some shade may be required in summer. Use soil and nutrient levels recommended on page 12. Cinerarias require a constant moisture supply and wilt readily at slightest drying. Use automatic watering.     CLERODENDRUM     Clerodendrum Thomsoniae     Europeans have grown clerodendrum or glory bower as a potted plant for many years. Recent research at Cornell has adapted this crop for production in the United States. The  colorful  white  bracts  and  red  flowers provide an     unusual and attractive new plant product  for both the traditional florist trade and the developing mass markets.     Varieties     Cornell research was with a clone selected for prolific flowering. These recommendations are for this clone, but it is likely that they can be applied to other clerodendrum selections after initial testing.     Propagation     One-node cuttings root in 10-12 days under mist, bottom heat, and 700 F air temperature. Summer-propagated plants flower about 12 weeks after cuttings are stuck. Two-node cuttings may be in order especially during seasons of low light intensity.     Light intensity and day-length response     Grow in full light. Short days and high light intensity promote flowering, although reliable flowering can be a problem even under these conditions. Use of a growth regulator in addition to high light intensity and short days ensures more reliable bloom. Your Cooperative Extension agent can provide latest growth regulator recommendations.     Temperature     Grow at 700 F. Lower temperatures inhibit growth. Higher temperatures enhance shoot growth but inhibit flowering.     Soil composition     Use a 1-1-1 soil mixture, pit 5,0   6.0,     Fertilization program     A regular fertilization program is required for production of quality plants. See page 12 for nutrient levels.     37     
    
chla7134041_1971_1_37

END OF IMAGE INFO
37
0038
00000038.jpg

     
     CLERODENDRUM - CYCLAMEN     A 4 inch pot of clerodendrum ready for sale. The white bracts partially enclose the brilliant red flowers creating a colorful effect. Bracts remain attractive long after the red flower drops, thereby guaranteeing consumer satisfaction.     Growth regulators     h -how- ih.it uicymidol (A Rest) inhibits clerodendrum shoot growth and promotes flowering; it ihowi promise "l solving main ol tin- poor flown nm problems ol thii crop b Nine has little effect, Cycocel is effective onr) .it very high concentrations as a soil drench. None "i these growth regulators is registered for n derodendrum.     Production program for trial use     High   light   mutism   iv   essentia]   foi   rapid, uniform flowering; hence, January and February an- pooi months     loi    flowering   clerodendrum.   Spring,   summer,   and   tall i be flowered using the following program: I.  Plant   I    S cuttings per 4" or 5" pot depending on the m/[ [! final product desired, (iron at 700F nights.     II   a  single  inning  is  used  per  pot.  suit   pinch   t[] remove onlv the tip when new growth is  1"      iur short ita\\s on the date ol pinching. In midsummer, high temperatures mav make shading with black i loth impossible m which case natural da) length should be given.     wth regulator treatment is essential for uniform flowering and accurate timing. However, none of the which have been researched for clerodendrum is registered bv K.P.A. for use on the crop I Uct your Cooperative Extension agent or Dcpt. ol Hon culture and OmamentaJ Horticulture, Cornell University,     A bench of clerodendrum in 6-inch pots approaches full bloom.     Ithaca, N.Y. 14853 for latest information on growth regulator registration and recommendations based thereon.     5. Summer-started crops will bloom in 12 weeks from pinching. Crops started at other times of the year will require at least 4 weeks longer depending on the season.     Physiological problems     Flower abscission. Temperatures above 700 F and low light intensity, either individually or in combination, can cause serious flower and bud drop. Transportation foi more than one day under these conditions will produce abscission. High light intensity and (or) 550 60\' I temperature reduce this problem. Fumigation with insecticides aKo promote! abscission.     References     "New   Pot   Plant  Clerodendrum   Tkomtoniae."  Harald     Hildrum.   New   York  Stale  Flower Industries  Bulletin I. November-December 1972.     "Recommendations for the Commercial Production of Clerodendrum Thomsonuu as a Potted Crop", available from the Dept. of Floriculture and Ornamental Horticulture, Cornell University, Ithaca, N.Y. 14853.     CYCLAMEN     i tamen indicum     Once a very popular potted plant, cyclamen declined in popularity because it was short-lived under home conditions, and it required 1215 months or more to produce. Through selection ol proper varieties and use of recently     18     
    
chla7134041_1971_1_38

END OF IMAGE INFO
38
0039
00000039.jpg

     
     CYCLAMEN     developed  8l/2-month production schedules, cyclamen is     ;once again a crop to be considered by the producer. Recent research on cyclamen as a cut flower crop is promising, and cut cyclamen are being sold in some markets.     Varieties     Varieties should be selected based on the demands of the market and the production schedule to be used. For m the 8!/2-month production program, early flowering varie-ties are a must; \'Hallo\', \'Improved Bonfire\', and the TAS strain of \'Dark Salmon Red\', of \'Rosa von ZehlendorP, and of \'Pure White\' are reported early and good. Consult your seedsman for more information on varietal characteristics.     Propagation     Sow seeds directly in peat pellets (Jiffy 7\'s, etc.) and cover lightly with peat moss. Direct sowing in peal pellets eliminates the need for subsequent transplanting. The peat-lite seedling mix is recommended for trial. See table 4. Germinate seeds in the dark at 660  680 F. Since temperatures above 720F inhibit germination, do not place in greenhouse. Move pellets to greenhouse at 660680 F nights and days when seedlings begin to emerge (after about 4 weeks). Provide partial shade May through August as full summer light intensity causes foliar injury. See M   "Production Programs" below for propagation schedules.     Light intensity     Cyclamen are grown under reduced light (about 4000 footcandles) from May 15 to September 1. Too little light produces long leaf petioles; too much light may cause dried spots on the leaves.     Day-length response     There is no apparent response to day length.     Temperature     See "Propagation" and "Production Programs."     Soil composition     Use a sterilized well-drained soil mix of 1/3 soil,  1/3 m  perlite, 1/3 peat moss by volume.     Fertilization program     Cyclamen do not readily show nutrient deficiency symptoms, for example, light green to yellow foliage, as most other plants do when nutrients arc inadequate. Therefore, fertilize with dilute amounts of nitrogen and p other nutrients at frequent intervals. Excessive nutrients will slow growth. Keep soluble salts readings under 100 K x 10~5.     Water     Cyclamen require ample water and should not be allowed to wilt. Since the plants are also sensitive to low soil oxygen, adequate soil and pot drainage is essential. Thoroughly wet the root ball at each watering. Soil mixes high in peat moss should be watered before they become light in color.     Fast crop program  8-1/2 months     Developed by Dr. Richard Widmer, University of Minnesota, this program requires precision management to keep the plants growing at their maximum at all times. An outline of the schedule to produce 5" pots of cyclamen for Christmas follows; however, interested producers should contact their Cooperative Extension agent or consult detailed articles under "References" for complete details of this technique. Use this program on a trial basis at first.     1.   Use only early-flowering varieties. See "Varieties."     2.   Sow seed April 1 as prescribed under "Propagation."     3.   May 1  Move seedlings to greenhouse at 660~680F days and nights. Space peat pellet to peat pellet. Provide partial shade through August.     4.   June 15 - Provide high intensity light throughout the night (10 hours) with four HOW VHO cool white fluorescent tubes 10" above the plants. Use 4 tubes above a 40"-wide bench. Lighting is helpful but not essential. 680 F days and nights.     5.   July 1 - Plunge the pelleted plants 3" x 3" in nutrient enriched peat moss (Hecol, etc.). Continue lighting and 680 F nights and days, if possible.     6.   August 1 15 - Plant in 5" plastic pots and space pot to pot. Delay in potting delays flowering. Continue 680 F nights and days, if possible. Discontinue lighting.     7.   September 15  Give final spacing of 1 plant per sq ft. Continue 680 F nights and days, if possible.     8.   October 1  Spray with gibberellic acid 3 (GAj) at 25 or 50 ppm and a safe wetting agent. Insert nozzle beneath leaves so small flower buds arc wetted.     9.   October 15 - Reduce night temperature to 650 F. Apply a second application of 25 ppm GA3 only if first application was at this rate.     10.   October 31 - Reduce temperature to 620 F; higher temperatures abort buds and reduce keeping quality; lower temperatures increase Boirytis.     11.   November 1 - Apply another application of 25 ppm GA3. (This is the second application if 50 ppm GA3 was applied October 1; it is the third application if 25 ppm GA3 was applied October 1 and again on October 15.) GA3 accelerates flowering by at least 2 weeks and peaks bloom earlier.     12.   Most plants will be saleable from late November through December 15.     13.   Follow fertilization and watering procedures to keep plants growing actively at all times.     39     
    
chla7134041_1971_1_39

END OF IMAGE INFO
39
0040
00000040.jpg

     
     DELPHINIUM - FOLIAGE PLANTS     12-15-month program. Seeds are sown according to the following schedule for saleable plants 12 to 14 months later: September 15 for 6" to 7" pots, October 15 for 5" to 5", November 1 5 for 4" to 5". See "Propagation" for procedures. Grow plants at 620 F during the seedling stage; 500 F for flowering the plants.     Preventive control program     Sterilize soil, benches, used pots, and equipment. Space plants adequately to allow air movement.     References     Cyclamen and Their Culture. FJ. Campbell, editor. 1969. Available from Department of Environmental Sciences, Waltham Field Station, University of Massachusetts, Wa.ltham, Massachusetts 02154.     "Profitable Cyclamen." R.E. Widmer, L.C. Stephens, and C.L. Argue. Grower Talks. George J. Ball Co., West Chicago, Illinois. February 1973.     "Cyclamen as Cut Flowers." Harry C. Kohl, Jr. Florists\' Remeiv 150, no. 3884 (May 11, 1972): 17.     DELPHINIUM     Delphinum cultorum     Biennial or perennial delphinium is now grown primarily in the field; greenhouse production is rare.     Varieties     \'Giant Pacific Court Series*, \'Giant Pacific Standard Mixture*, * Belladonna Improved\'.     Culture     Seedlings started in the greenhouse in early spring are set in the field after danger of frost is past. They will flower in late summer and again the following June and August. Plant in a wind-protected location on ridges or hummocks to favor drainage away from the crown. Rotate plantings. Space 18 inches in 3-foot rows. Field nutrient levels are the same as on page 14, except nitrogen 1525 ppm. Apply 1200 lb 5-10*10 per acre as a side dressing in spring when growlh begins; repeat after harvest of spring crop.     FOLIAGE PLANTS     With the recent upsurge in interior landscaping, demand for foliage plants has spiraled. Supplies are generally inadequate to meet demand, particularly in the larger sizes. Whereas in recent years foliage plant production in northern greenhouses had been generally a holding opera-lion only, some growers are now returning lo producing ihese plants. Rooted cuttings or small plants are purchased from southern ^nd Puerto Rican producers, grown for several months, then marketed.     Light intensity     Light intensity requirements vary considerably among foliage plants. Although many will grow in high light intensity, once acclimatized to lower intensities, plants may be injured by subsequent exposure to high light. Too little light results in slow growth, excessive elongation of stems, and reduced size in leaves. High light intensity may cause loss of green color and seriously damage the foliage. Greenhouses are usually shaded from April 1 through October 15. However, some species should receive full light intensity. See Cornell Extension Bulletin 1087 for light requirements for specific foliage plants.     Day-length response     None of the generally grown foliage plants shows a day-length response of commercial importance.     Temperature     Grow at 650 to 750 F for maximum rate of growth. If plants are being held for sale, use 600 to 650 F. At temperatures below 600 F growth is severely checked.     Soil composition     Foliage plants require a porous, well-drained growing medium. The Cornell Foliage Plant Mix and the Cornell Epiphytic Mix given in table 4, page 13, are recommended.     Fertilization program     Regular fertilization is required even when holding plants for resale. Inadequate nutrition will result in loss of quality. Foliage plants respond well to dilute fertilization with each watering. See page 14 for nutrient levels.     Water     Water requirements vary among the many species. In general, most grow best when kept uniformly moist. Consult "References" for water requirements of bromeliads and other epiphytic plants, cacti, succulents, and other species with special requirements.     Growth regulators     Because of the numerous species of foliage plants in the trade, it is not possible here to specify growth regulator treatments. See "Ethrel," page 22, for information on its use to induce flowering in bromeliads.     Physiological problems     Yellowing and spotting of foliage, though sometimes caused by disease, is often related to poor environmental conditions including those caused by improper light intensity, incorrect temperature, overwatering, underwatering, excessively low humidity, overfertilization, and combinations of these factors. In extreme situations, wilting, lack     40     
    
chla7134041_1971_1_40

END OF IMAGE INFO
40
0041
00000041.jpg

     
     FOLIAGE PLANTS - FREESIA - GARDENIA - GERANIUM     of growth, and general decline occur. To overcome these difficulties, become familiar with the proper environmental conditions for the common foliage species.     Preventive control program     Choose reputable suppliers to ensure getting healthy plants. Discard diseased plants. Sterilize potting media, benches, equipment, and pots.     References     Cornell Peat-lite Mixes for Commercial Plant Growing, Cornell Information Bulletin 43.     The Cornell Automated Plant Grower. Cornell Information Bulletin 40.     Propagation of House Plants. Cornell Extension Bulletin 1086.     Artificial Lighting for Decorative Plants. Cornell Extension Bulletin 1087.     Exotica Plant Manual. A.B. Graf. 1971. 840 pages, 4200 photographs (100 in color) of foliage plants. Available from Julius Roehrs Co., E. Rutherford, New Jersey 07000.     Exotica 3, revised edition. 1968. 1834 pages, 12,025 illustrations (291 in color). Available from Julius Roehrs Co., E. Rutherford, New Jersey 07000.     Series of articles on foliage plants by Russell Mott. New York State Flower Industries Bulletins 1217, 19, 20.     Florida Foliage Grower. Issued monthly by Florida Cooperative Extension Service, Institute of Food and Agricultural Sciences, University of Florida, Gainesville, Florida 32601.     FRESSIA     Freesia refracta     Freesias are grown primarily on Long Island and other areas near New York City. Their fragrance makes them especially desirable as a cut flower for small occasional flower arrangements.     Varieties     Consult your horticultural supplier.     Propagation     Commercial production is primarily from field-grown corms obtained from specialty bulb growers.     Light intensity. Grow in full sunlight.     Day-length response     Freesias flower best under short days and poorly under     longer days than are natural for December and January in New York State.     Temperature     Grow at 550 F. Delay planting until greenhouse soil temperatures cool, usually early September. Migh summer soil temperatures encourage new corms to form on top of the corms to be forced, and may cause growth of side shoots before the foliage of the parent corm develops.     After flowering, corms are allowed to grow until foliage dies; they are then dried off, dug, cleaned, and stored at 700 F until replanted. Store as recommended for gladiolus corms (page 43).     Soil composition. See page 12.     Fertilization program     Two liquid applications of 20-5-30 fertilizer at the rate of xh lb per 100 sq ft is sufficient for the duration of the crop. Apply when soil tests indicate need. See page 14 for nutrient levels.     Spacing and planting depth     Plant corms 1 to 2 inches deep and space 1 x 6 inches in the bench.     Water     Frcesias require a uniformly moist soil but require less water when beginning growth than when flowering.     GARDENIA     Gardenia jasminoides     Potted gardenias are for spring holidays; few growers now produce cut flowers.     Culture     Gardenias are grown in full sunlight at 620-650F. Low soil temperatures may cause foliar chlorosis; temperatures above 650 F increase vegetative growth, reduce growth of young flower buds, and increase bud drop. Use a soil mixture of 50% soil and 50% acid peat moss, pll 4.5 to 5.5. Maintain nutrient and soluble salts levels given on pages 14 and 16 with acid fertilizers. Keep soil moist; drying can cause chlorosis and bud drop.     B-Nine, a growth regulator, is registered for use on potted gardenias. More compact plants with more flower buds and control of bud by-passing are reported advantages of B~Nine treatment. Follow label recommendations,     GERANIUM     Pelargonium hartorum     The popularity of geraniums increases each year. Produced primarily for spring garden sales, the geranium also     41     
    
chla7134041_1971_1_41

END OF IMAGE INFO
41
0042
00000042.jpg

     
     GERANIUM     is sold for Easter, Mother\'s Day, and some other holidays. New York Stale ranks first in the nation in number of geraniums produced for finished plant sales.     Varieties     Fl hybrids grown from seed. Carefree series  red, scarlet, white, and shades of pink and salmon; Harris\' Moreton series  color range similar to Carefree series; Nittany Lion ~ brilliant scarlet.     Varieties propagated by cuttings. There are numerous varieties with a broad range of growth habit, color, and flower form. Variegated and colored leaf types and dwarf geraniums are available.     Propagation     Program for geraniums from seed to bloom May 20. Sow seed January 18-25 in peat-lite mix for seedlings (see page 13). Germinate at 650-700F in the greenhouse or under cool white fluorescent light using a day length of 16 hours. See "Annuals and Bedding Plants," page 26. Transplant to 2V4-inch pots 2 weeks after sowing. Grow at 600 620 F nights. Shift to 4-inch pots March 8. Fertilize weekly, alternating potassium nitrate and 20-20-20, each at rate of 2 lb in 100 gal water, or when feeding at each watering, use 200 ppm N and K. Do not pinch. Total production time is 120 days.     From cuttings. Bacterial wilt often causes serious losses. Cuttings thai have been propagated from stock plants selected for freedom from the disease by culture-indexing are available from geranium specialists.     Growers who produce their own cuttings should use culture-indexed cuttings to establish mother blocks of stock, Grow each geranium stock plant in the block in a separate pot. See "Carnations, Propagation," page 33 for procedure. See "Preventive Control Program", below.     Stock plants can be grown in the conventional plant habit or trained into "trees\'*. The latter method utilizes bench space efficiently and provides a means of "storing*\' cuttings on the plant. Your Cooperative Extension agent or horticultural supplier can assist you in selecting a stock-plant technique.     Light intensity     Grown in full light. Some light shade may be beneficial under the high temperatures of midsummer. Cuttings newly placed in the propagation bench or pots may require shade for a few days.     Day length response     Geraniums apparently do not respond to photopcriod.     Temperature     For stock plants and general crop production, 650F. For rooting cuttings, 650 F air temperature And 650-700F bottom heat. For holding salable crops, 550 F. Tempera*     tures  of  less   than   500 F  result  in very slow, hardened growth and reddening of foliage.     Soil composition     Use standard soil mixes recommended on page 12, or peat-lite mixes; see page 13 for recipes.     Fertilization program     Maintain nutrient levels recommended on page 14. Low nitrogen and (or) low temperature make leaves turn red. Geraniums are sensitive to potash deficiency which causes dry, brown leaf margins, especially on lower leaves. High nitrogen results in soft growth if other environmental conditions are not optimum. A practice of long standing among growers is to withhold water and nutrients to slow crop development. This result indeed will be achieved but at the expense of final crop quality.     Water     Keep moist but not excessively wet. Root diseases may become a problem in soggy soils. Withholding water to check growth may also cause yellowing and dropping of leaves. See comments under "Fertilization Program.*\' Automatic pot-watering systems are recommended; especially useful in preventing spread of diseases by splashing water.     Growth regulators     Numerous growth regulators have been tested on geraniums. To date, the only material in commercial use is gibberellic acid 3 (GA3) which is used to induce stem elongation in geranium "tree" production. This program is detailed in the manual Geraniums. See "Geraniums, References/* page 43.     Carbon dioxide     Carbon dioxide enrichment of the atmosphere has produced varying degrees of improvement in quality in geraniums. Further knowledge is required before it can be recommended for this crop. See page 18.     Preventive control program     Obtain cuttings from cultured stock sources, or use culture-indexed cuttings to set up mother block system. See page 33. Grow in sterilized rooting medium and soil. Follow a thorough sanitation program. Carry stock plants under glass in large individual pots. FourFive-gallon containers are excellent. Discard any plants that show leaf-spot, abnormal leaves, dieback, or any leaf yellowing. Take cuttings by breaking out succulent tips or with a sterilized (flame or dip in alcohol) knife or razor blade. Do not dip cuttings in liquid solutions. Renew stock plants annually from culture-indexed sources. Maintain good cultural conditions and ventilation. Avoid excessive crowding.     42     
    
chla7134041_1971_1_42

END OF IMAGE INFO
42
0043
00000043.jpg

     
     GLADIOLUS - GLOXINIA     References     Geraniums, A Manual on the Culture, Diseases, Insects, Economics, Taxonomy, and Breeding of Geraniums, 2nd edition. John W. Mastalerz, editor. 1971. Available from Pennsylvania Flower Growers, 103 Tyson Building, University Park, Pennsylvania 16803. $6.00     "Diseases of Geraniums." Paul E. Nelson. New York State Flower Growers Bulletin 201. August 1962.     "Pelargonium Rust, A New Geranium Disease in New York State." AAV. Dimock, R.E. McCoy, J.E. Knauss. New York State Flowers Growers Bulletin 268. March 1968.     "Geranium Rust a Continuing Serious Problem." C.E, Williamson. New York State Flower Industries Bulletin 35. June 1973.     GLADIOLUS     Gladiolus hybrida     Florida-grown gladiolus are available September through June in New York State markets. Outdoor production in New York State supplies the summer market with the first flowers available during late June and early July. The number of gladiolus growers in the state has dropped sharply in the last 15 years. Gladiolus production in the greenhouse, once common in New York State, is virtually nonexistent today.     Varieties     Hundreds of varieties in a wide range of colors are available.     Propagation     Propagation is done by growing on the tiny cormels produced at the base of large corms used for flower production.     Light intensity     Gladiolus are grown outdoors in the field in full sunlight.     Day-length response     There is no commercially important response to day length.     Temperature     After digging, cure corms at 800850 F for 1 to 2 weeks or until corms clean easily. Clean, store warm for a few more days, then store at 400~~450F until planting. For early forcing, remove from cold storage and hold at 800850 F for 2 weeks before planting. Best growth is at ) 650F to 700F, although gladiolus tolerates temperatures close to freezing. In extremely hot weather, cooling by irrigation is helpful.     Soil composition     Production in sandy, well-drained soils yields healthier corms which are easier to clean; frequent irrigation and fertilization are required on such soils. Choose soils with easy access from early spring to late fall for planting and digging.     Fertilization program     Field nutrient levels: NO3-10 to 15 ppm; P~3 to 4 ppm; K-15 to 25 ppm; Ca-over 100 ppm. pH-5.5 to 7. Soluble salts reading less than 150 K x 10~5. Avoid high nitrogen, especially from organic sources, because it favors disease. Apply a complete fertilizer before planting. Side-dress with nitrogen 1 month after planting. Rates and frequency should be determined by the soil drainage and by frequency and intensity of rainfall or irrigation. See table 9. Fertilizer can be applied through the irrigation system.     Water     Irrigation is essential for a quality crop in most years. Wilting causes crooked flower stems.     Weed control     See Cornell Recommendations for Commercial Floriculture Crops, Part II: Disease, Pest, and Weed Control.     Preventive control program     Practice regular rotation of production fields. Use Fusar* ium-resistant varieties. Dig corms as early as possible in dry weather. Dry harvested corms rapidly with artificial heat as indicated under "Temperature." Store in shallow, screen-bottom trays in room with forced ventilation. Use pre-planting "soak" or dust treatments described under Fusar-ium yellows and corm rot of gladiolus in Cornell Recommendations for Commercial Floriculture Crops, Part II: Disease, Pest, and Weed Control.     If corms have been dusted with insecticide in storage, there is no need to include insecticide in preplanting soak or dust treatments. Spray or dust every 10 days with one of the materials listed for thrips.     References     Gladiolus   in   the   Home   Garden.   Cornell   Information     Bulletin 102. The    World   of  Gladiolus.   North   American   Gladiolus     Council, Inc., 1972. Available from the council, Box A,     Edgewood, Maryland 21040.     GLOXINIA     Sinningia speciosa     Gloxinias are grown as flowering potted plants for sale throughout the year and especially for Christmas, Valen* tine Day, Mother\'s Day, and summer sales.     43     
    
chla7134041_1971_1_43

END OF IMAGE INFO
43
0044
00000044.jpg

     
     GLOXINIA - HYDRANGEA Varieties                                                                                                 References     Numerous strains are available from commercial growers. Select iotf depends on flower size, color, and growth habit desired.     Propagation     Large-scale producers start gloxinias from seed; smaller-scale retail growers purchase started seedlings or start plants from tubers. Seeds sown in February5 yield flowering plants in August. Varieties do not come true from seeds and must be propagated from leaf petiole cuttings.     Light intensity     Gloxinias require from 1500 to a maximum of 2000 footcandles of light for best flowering. Excessive light intensity causes leaf burn. Low intensity results in leggy growth. Salable 5-inch pots of gloxinias can be produced from seed in 154 days under artificial light. A 16-hour photoperiod is given using warm white or cool white fluorescent lubes 8 inches above the plants.     Day-length   response     Day length of less than 8 hours considerably slows plant growth and flowering.     Temperature     64* 680 F is optimum; most growers use 650  700 F. 600F or less slows growth. Downward cupping of leaves may be a symptom of too low temperature and (or) low nutrients.     Soil composition     Use soil mixture containing at least 50% peat moss by volume or use peat-lite mixes.     Fertilization program     Use nutrient levels listed on page 12. Keep soluble salts reading under 150 K x 10s. Downward cupping of leaves may be a symptom of low nutrients and (or) low temperature.     Soil moisture     Keep soil moist but not soaked. Excessive moisture intensifies disease problems.     "Controlled Flowering of Gloxinias under Artificial Light." J.W. Boodley and F.F. Horton. New York State Flower Growers Bulletin 214. September 1963. See also "African Violets, References," page 25.     HYDRANGEA     Hydrangea macrophylla     Hydrangeas, a traditional Easter and Mother\'s Day crop, are grown primarily by specialists. Some retail growers purchase plants 6 to 8 weeks before holidays and finish them.     Varieties     A wide array of varieties is available from suppliers. Except for white varieties, color is determined by the amount of available aluminum present in the plant. Flowers are blue if aluminum is abundant, pink if the supply is low, and mauve or pinkish-blue if the supply is moderate. Availability of aluminum is controlled by soil pH. See "Fertilization Program." Varieties should be selected for their response to color-control treatments as well as growth habit, floret size and character, keeping quality, and foliage characteristics. Your horticultural supplier can assist you.     Production programs     Recommendations in this section are based on research and current commercial hydrangea production programs. Current research at Purdue University has the goal of producing hydrangeas on a year-round basis in 46 months, cutting to flowering plant, by eliminating field production of plants, pinching, long flower-initiation periods, defoliation treatments, and cold storage. Your Cooperative Extension agent can provide progress reports on this research.     Propagation     Terminal or stem-section cuttings are taken in April and May from nonflowering growth on the lower portions of plants to be sold. Cuttings arc potted when rooted; pots are plunged in outdoor beds, and the plants grow in size and initiate flower buds late in the summer. Frost protection is provided until the plants are moved into storage.     Light intensity     Grow at full light intensity in field and greenhouse. Light shade may be required in the greenhouse after flower color shows to prevent scorching of flower bracts.     Day-length response     Long days delay flow?er formation. Recent research at Purdue   University   indicates   that   under  a  24-hour day     Preventive control program     Use a well drained potting soil mix. Put ample drainage material in bottom of pot. Sterilize soil, pots, benches before using. Do not overwatcr. If black vine weevils have been a problem, apply a preplant pesticide soil treatment as recommended in Cornell Recommendations for Commercial Floriculture Crops, Part 11: Disease, Pest, and Weed Control     44     
    
chla7134041_1971_1_44

END OF IMAGE INFO
44
0045
00000045.jpg

     
     HYDRANGEA     length (8 hours normal daylight plus 20 footcandles of lighting for 16 hours), plants continue to grow vegetatively and do not show vegetative or inflorescence dormancy. In 812-hour day lengths the plants remain dormant. Plants of the variety \'Merveille\' with a flower bud present, but never given a leaf drop or cold treatment, flower in about 50 days in a 700 F greenhouse under a 24-hour day length.     Temperature and storage     For flower hud initiation and development. Flower buds initiate when the temperature is below 650F for 6 weeks; in central New York temperatures become low enough about September 1 for the process to begin. Plants are in the field at this time and may require frost protection. Once set, buds require 330 400F for at least 6 weeks to develop to the stage where they can be forced into bloom. This treatment is given in darkened coldframes or storages. Plants are defoliated at the outset of storage to mature flower buds and make them receptive to cold treatments. Leaves are removed by placing ripe apples, 1 bu per 200-400 cubic ft of airtight storage space, in the storage and raising the temperature to 600 700F for 2 days. Fallen leaves should be removed from storage immediately to prevent Botrytis development. See "Hydrangea, Storage Mold and Preventive Control Program/* Cornell Recommendations for Commercial Floriculture Crops,   Part  II:  Disease,   Pest,   and   Weed  Control.     For growing in the greenhouse. Hydrangeas bloom in 3 months when grown at 600 F nights. Crop can be slowed or speeded by manipulation of temperature within a range of 550-800F.     Soil composition     Hydrangea roots are extremely sensitive to low soil oxygen; they must have a well-drained and aerated soil mixture such as 1/3 soil, 1/3 perlite, and 1/3 peat moss. Because soil pH controls the availability of aluminum, which in turn determines flower color, acid peat moss can be used in soil mixtures for plants to be grown blue. If used in mixes for pink, adjust pH with ground limestone. To obtain clear pink or blue color, select plants to be forced as pink or blue and maintain pH control from the time of their first potting. Use a soil mix of pH 6.26.5 for pink and white, of pH 4.55.0 for blue. Potting soil should have these nutrient levels:     Pink and white N03 - 30-50 ppm P - 6-8 ppm K~ 15-25 ppm Ca  over 100 ppm     Blue     N03 - 20-30 ppm P - 1-3 ppm K - 25-45 ppm Ca  over 100 ppm     Fertilization program     Maintain the above levels during field growth and greenhouse forcing.     For pink and white, use high phosphorus fertilizers such as 15-30-15, and alkaline nitrogen fertilizers such as calcium nitrate and sodium nitrate.     For blue, use no phosphorus fertilizer. Use acid nitrogen fertilizers such as ammonium sulphate and ammonium nitrate. If you cannot attain a clear blue color with careful pH control, apply aluminum sulphate at 1 lb per 5 gal water 3 to 4 times at 7-day intervals beginning several weeks after plants arc brought into the greenhouse for forcing. Soil should be moist at time of application.     Water     Hydrangeas have a large leaf surface and require ample water. Either drying or overwatering may result in root injury\'. Use an automatic watering system on a well-drained, well-aerated soil mix to ensure proper moisture control.     Growth regulators     Good cultural practices yield compact plants of desired heights in most varieties. P\'or varieties which grow tall in spite of such practices, spray with 0.75% solution of B-Nine in late July, when shoot growth after pinch reaches 1 to 2 inches, to shorten growth during the field period. To shorten growth during greenhouse forcing, spray with 0.50% solution of BNine when 4 or 5 pairs of leaves are visible. Use BNine on trial basis to gain experience. BNine is registered for use on hydrangeas.     Problems     Blindness results when the plant has not been exposed to temperatures of below 650 F for at least 6 weeks. Other causes include heavy shading of plants in field, frost damage to leaves before buds set, and weak plants resulting from poor growing conditions, crowding, or disease infection.     Chlorosis resulting from iron deficiency is usually noted when root injury occurs or soil is at pH 6.8-7.0 or higher. Correct adverse conditions and apply an iron fertilizer as recommended in tabic 1 0.     Preventive control program     Field program. Control weeds in and around beds to prevent insect build-up.     Storage program. Maintain a strict sanitation program. Remove all fallen leaves from storage. Provide effective air circulation to prevent high humidity. Do not overwatcr plants in storage. Spray or dust plants with fungicides recommended under "Hydrangea, Storage Mold," Cornell Recommendations for Commercial Floriculture Crops, Part II: Disease, Pest, and Weed Control, when placed in storage and periodically thereafter.     Greenhouse program. Make 2 applications of one of the recommended insecticides at 7-day intervals at the beginning of forcing before buds break. Follow mildew preven*     45     
    
chla7134041_1971_1_45

END OF IMAGE INFO
45
0046
00000046.jpg

     
     KALANCHOE- LILY     lion program prescribed in Cornell Recommendations for Commercial Floriculture Crops, Part II: Disease, Pest, and Weed Control.        *     KALANCHOE     Kalan c h oe Blossfeldiana     The scarlet-flowered species and its dwarf variety \'Tom Thumb* are grown as potted flowering plants for Christmas, Valentine\'s Day and other winter and spring holidays. There are also yellow and orange red varieties.     Culture     Propagated primarily from seed sown in March, 4-inch potted plants are produced by December. Terminal and leaf-petiole cuttings can also be used. Grow at 600F. Given ample water, kalanchoes can be grown at full light throughout the year; however, some shade may be required in summer. Kalanchoe initiates flower buds under short-day conditions which occur naturally from September 25 to October 5. Flowering date can be controlled with light and (or) black-cloth treatments. For Christmas bloom, apply black cloth 5 P.M. to 7 A.M. from September 1 to October 5.     Plants bloom in 3 to 4l/2 months after short-day treatment, depending on the time of year. Your Cooperative Extension agent can provide detailed schedules. Use soil and nutrient levels given on page 12.     LILY     Lilies of several species are grown as cut flowers and potted plants. Potted lilies for the Faster market represent the major crop.     Dates of Easter Sunday     1974April14     1975March30     1976April18     1977April10     1978March26     1979April15     19 HOApril6     1981April19     1982April11     1983April3     1984April22     198^April7     Varieties     CuInvars of Lilium hngiflorum, the Easter lily     *Aee* (\'Slocum\'s Ace*). Currently the leading cultivar for the market, *Ace* is medium tail and has rich dark green leaves. Flowers are bell shaped with width of flare equal to or longer than length. It is more floriferous, has smaller flowers, dnd forces slower than \'Croft*.     *Croft\\  Plant is medium tall; leaves are very long and light green; flowers very long and bell shaped. Selected as a short type from \'Estate\' and once extensively used for the i Easter potted crop, \'Croft* essentially has been replaced by \'Ace\' and other cultivars.     \'Erabu\'. A Japanese cultivar, it is now used primarily for cut-flower production; grows well at low temperature.     4Estate\\ A tall lily selected for cut-flower purposes. Leaves very short and yellowish green; flowers are narrow and trumpet shaped.     \'Georgia\'. A tall, very floriferous plant with fairly long, flat leaves which tend to point upward, it is the principal lily for cut flowers. It blooms earlier than \'Ace\' or \'Croft*.     \'King\'. A selection of Georgia,\' it is shorter and produces a sturdy, vigorous plant.     \'Nellie White*. Of unknown origin, this cultivar is excellent for potted plant culture on the basis of total plant characteristics and forcing performance. Plant is short; foliage is dark green, medium long, and of heavy substance. Flowers are adequate in size and quantity.     Cultivars of Lilium speciosum and Lilium auratum     These lilies are grown as cut flowers; the individual flowers are used in corsages, and stems are used in arrangements. Cultivars of L. speciosum are available in white and shades of pink; L. auratum, in white and shades of cream.     Mid-century hybrid garden lilies     Certain varieties of these garden lilies can be flowered as potted plants or cut flowers. See your supplier for varieties.     Field production of bulbs     Most lily bulbs are produced in Oregon, Washington, and northern California. Japan exports an increasing amount to the United States. Bulbs are dug from the fields in early fall and either shipped directly to growers using non-precooled forcing programs or stored cool (vernalized) until late November or early December, and then shipped to the greenhouse operator for Easter production.     Temperature. See "Production Programs.\'*     Soil composition     Use a well-drained mixture as recommended on page 12. Peat-lite mixes have given excellent results, but use on a trial basis first. See Cornell Information Bulletin 43, Cornell Peat-lite Mixes for Commercial Plant Growing, and page 13. Adjust potting soil pH to 6.8 to 7.2 with ground linestome. Nutrient levels for potting soils: N03, 30-50 ppm; P, 3-4 ppm for *Ace\\ 1-2 ppm for \'Croft\'; K, 25-30 ppm; Ca, 150200 ppm. Soluble salts reading should be less than 150 K x 10"5. High salts slow root growth.     I Fertilization program     Maintain these nutrient levels with a regular fertilization     46     
    
chla7134041_1971_1_46

END OF IMAGE INFO
46
0047
00000047.jpg

     
     LILY     program beginning when shoots emerge from the soil. Use 3/4 lb of potassium nitrate and 1^2 lb of calcium nitrate per     |f 100 gal of water every 2 weeks or alternate these materials weekly at rates indicated for each until buds are W long; then use only calcium nitrate at 2 lb per 100 gal of water weekly until plants are sold. If leaf scorch is a problem, use nitrate of soda or calcium nitrate as nitrogen sources. If pH rises above 7.2, use 1 application of ammonium sulphate. Low phosphorus levels and maintenance of calcium levels are recommended  to prevent leaf scorch. Take monthly     f  soil tests beginning 10 days before shoot emergence.     Water     LIse a well-drained soil and an automatic watering system. Ensure a thorough initial watering after potting, and keep the soil uniformly moist. If kept dry, plant quality and flower number are reduced and plant height is increased. If overwatered, root rot may develop. Observation of root development and soil ball moisture several times a week is the best way to determine water needs. Drying when buds are visible may cause bud "blast." Ensure adequate heating and air circulation to prevent overmoist soil conditions.     Light intensity     Lilies require full light intensity from October through April. Plants grown under dirty glass, in shaded areas, or     ,   too tightly spaced are taller than those grown in full light.     " Shading during summer may be necessary to reduce temperature.     Day-length response     Research has shown that long days on newly emerging shoots will cause a response similar to that caused by cool temperatures. If bulbs have not received enough cooling for optimum forcing and flowering, artificial long days (insurance lighting) can be substituted using chrysanthemum lighting of 10 to 20 footcandles of incandescent light from 10 P.M. to 2 A.M. for about 2 weeks. Use only if you know or suspect that bulbs have received insufficient cooling; long days can produce the same effect as overcooling, that is, produce plants that have short leaves and flower quickly with low bud count.     Long days also increase stem length. If sufficient height is difficult to achieve in potted lilies, begin 1 to 1 V2 months ) of long days when growth is 4 to 6 inches high. Apply 20 footcandles from 10 P.M. to 2 A.M., a recommended standard practice in production of lilies for cut flowers. Flowering is also slightly hastened.     Production programs     Production techniques have recently changed considerably. Four production approaches are given varying de-f grees   of  recommendation   by  sales  representatives  and university researchers across the country: natural cooling, control   temperature   forcing   (CTF),   home   case-cooled     bulbs, and commercial case-cooled bulbs. All programs are based on research tailored by a number of years of grower experience. These programs are described below. Growers interested in changing to a different method should do so on a small scale at first to gain experience.     Natural cooling method. Use non-precooled bulbs; on arrival, pot bulbs deep in the pot in case premature sprouting occurs. Water immediately and keep constantly moist. Place potted bulbs in covered frames or sheds exposed to natural conditions. Insert thermometers next to the bulb in a number of the pots, and accurately record temperature daily. Bulbs require 1000 hours (6 weeks) of temperatures as follows: \'Ace\' 350-400F, \'Nellie White* 400 450F. Do not allow soil to. freeze. Move pots into greenhouse about 120 days prior to desired date of bloom. If unusually warm weather conditions prevent the accumulation of 1000 hours of cool temperature, insurance lighting can.be used to substitute for not more than 2 weeks of cold. See "Day-length Response/* this page, for information on insurance lighting. Keep soil and air temperatures 600 to 650 F for 35 to 40 days. Lower temperatures decrease flower count and root development and may increase root rot problems; higher temperatures may delay flowering and reduce bud count. Thereafter, apply usual temperatures and cultural practices recommended for lilies elsewhere in this section.     Control temperature forcing (CTF) method. Use non-precooled bulbs; on arrival, pot bulbs deep in the pot in case premature sprouting occurs. Water immediately and keep constantly moist. This treatment must not be done in dry soil. Place pots in 630~650F for 3 weeks for rooting. The high flower-bud count typical of this treatment is ascribed to this rooting period. After 3 weeks, drop soil temperature to 350~-400F for \'Ace* and 400~450F for \'Nellie White*. Place thermometers in the soil next to the bulb, and record temperatures daily. Bring pots into greenhouse about 110 days prior to desired date of bloom. Keep soil temperatures 600-650F for 35-40 days for reasons given under "Natural Cooling Method/* If insufficient cooling is suspected, use insurance lighting. Thereafter, apply usual temperatures and cultural practices recommended for lilies elsewhere in this section.     Home case-cooled method. Use non-precooled bulbs. Immediately on receipt, place the cases of bulbs in the refrigerator: \'Ace* - 350~400F, \'Nellie White*  400450F; use 400 F as a compromise temperature when both varieties must be cooled in the same refrigerator. Cool for 6 weeks. Insert thermometer well into the packing cases at several locations, and record temperatures daily. At the end of 6 weeks, handle as prescribed under "Commercial Case-cooled Bulbs,*\'     Commercial case-cooled bulbs. Purchase prccooletl bulbs from your supplier. Pot immediately on arrival. If necessary to delay potting, store crates of bulbs at 350400F; if refrigerator space is not available, store where temperature does not exceed 600 F. Pot bulbs deeply if premature sprouting occurs. Place at 600~650F for 3     47     
    
chla7134041_1971_1_47

END OF IMAGE INFO
47
0048
00000048.jpg

     
     LILY     Table 14.     Date of bulb arrival and planting assuming bulb precooling began October 20-25     Sav. 25                     Dec. 2                   Dec. 9                   Dec. 16                 Dec. 23                 Dec. 30     Probable weeks precooling                                5                                6                           7                           8                           9                          10     applied by jobber     Approximate days required for                     125                             120                       114                       108                       103                        100     flowering if* 60 F night   70 F dav temperatures     ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------(     weeks to ensure good rooting. If insufficient cooling is suspected, use insurance lighting. Bulbs for Easter, received precooled from the supplier, will usually flower about 120 days after potting when grown at 600F nights, 700F days. However, time to bloom varies depending on amount of precooling given by the supplier. The grower must consider this information as he plans his production schedule. See table 14.     Greenhouse growing subsequent to cooling treatments     Temperature for forcing. Grow plants at a precise 600 F night, 700 F day. Temperature is especially critical during flower-hud initiation, that is, until about mid-February. Temperatures higher than 700 F at night up to this time can delay flowering. After mid-February, night temperatures and to a lesser extent day temperatures should be used to control crop timing. Leaf counting is a technique that indicates progress of development. See "References\'* for more information on leaf counting. Experience and visual observations of the plant and flower-bud size also are commonly used. After mid-February, if the crop is slow, temperatures up to 800 F at night can be used to speed plants. I! the crop is too fast, temperatures as low as 310 F can be used to slow the crop. When using other than 600 F night temperatures, adjustments should be made in other environmental conditions, especially in watering practices.     Height control  growth regulators     Photopenod. In lilies, long days increase stem length; short days reduce it. If sufficient height is difficult to achieve or, conversely, if tall lilies are desired, begin 1 to Vh months of long days when plants are 4 to 6 inches high. Apply chrysanthemum lighting using 10 to 20 lootcandles nightly from 10 P.M. to 2 A.M. This should be standard practice for cut lilies.     Chrysanthemum type black-cloth shading can be used to prevent excessive height, but use of growth regulators is easier.     Growth regulators. Ancymidol (A-Rest) is registered for use on lilies as a soil drench. When used at rates recommended on the label, it effectively controls height. The amount to be applied is governed by: the amount of height reduction desired, the lily cultivar, bulb size, and cultural conditions such as root medium, light conditions,     temperature, soil fertility, and moisture. For shorter growing types such as \'Ace,\' and \'Nellie White\', the amount of height reduction should be small, and the amount of ancymidol applied should be less than for taller growing types such as \'Georgia\' and \'Croft\'. For some cultivars (\'Ace\' in our experiments), plants from 1011-inch bulbs were about one-third taller than from 89-inch bulbs. Interestingly, the percent reduction in height was about the same when treated with the same rate of retardant. In areas such as New York State where light may be a bit limiting in February and March, less retardant is needed than in some of the more southern states where the lilies may grow faster and taller during these periods. Your Cooperative Extension agent can provide recommended rates for your region. Growers who regularly experience trouble with lilies growing too tall may wish to use more retardant than those whose lilies are usually just about right but may need a slight reduction. Height is affected by | cultural factors. Properly fertilized lilies tend to be shorter with better foliage than inadequately fertilized lilies. "Running them dry" keeps them shorter but usually causes other troubles. If bark is used in the soil mix, some of the retardant may be absorbed on the bark or inactivated in some other way, according to the manufacturer. Our research has been with lilies in a 1:1:1, by volume, mix of soil, peat moss, and perlite.     Cornell research shows best results with lilies treated at the 59-inch height as measured from the soil to the tip of the plant. Treatment of shorter plants has given somewhat less uniform results. The retardant decreases the length of internodes (distance between leaves) without changing the flower or leaf number because these have been initiated before the time of treatment. The drench method has label approval and is recommended. The drench has the advantage of the retardant being absorbed by the roots over a period of time; so there is not as much chance of the! abrupt retardation one may get if the spray concentration is too strong. To treat 500 pots of *Ace* or other shorter type lilies when the plants are 59 inches tall, use the 0.25 soil drench rate which requires 1 pt of 0.026% ancymidol in 24 gal water, applying 6 oz per pot. For taller types, use the 0.50 mg soil drench rate requiring 2 pt of 0.026% ancymidol in 24 gal water. At time of application, the soiL should be slightly moist so that the 6 fl oz (190 ml) of re-1 tardant solution will thoroughly wet the soil with no excess running out of the bottom of the pot Ancymidol can be     48     
    
chla7134041_1971_1_48

END OF IMAGE INFO
48
0049
00000049.jpg

     
     LILY-ORCHID     applied as a drench by means of a proportioner. Since plants react to ancymidol very quickly, ensure that concentrations as well as amounts applied per pot are precise. Since the reported results were obtained under experimental conditions, we cannot guarantee that growers will observe the same results. Growers using ancymidol the first time should be cautious, use their own trials, and make notes of observations under their own conditions.     Mid-century hybrid garden lilies for potted plants     Certain varieties of these hybrids perform well as potted plants for spring and summer sales. The consumer can plant the lily in the garden when blooms fade. Use culture prescribed for Easter lilies. Bulbs planted in December flower in about 90 days at 600F. Later plantings bloom in less time.     Storage of potted flowering lilies     Plants in flower too early for Easter can be stored dark for 2 weeks at 310F. Water the soil well, and store when the earliest bud is swollen and just ready to crack open. Mist spray the plants with zineb xh lb per 100 gal water prior to storage as a protection against Botrytis. Remove the plants 1 day before full bloom is desired. .Because open blooms are very susceptible to Botrytis, it is best to remove them before placing plants in storage. Two weeks is about the limit for storage; lilies often deteriorate if stored longer. Do not move plants directly from storage into a bright greenhouse. First allow them to warm gradually in the workroom.     Culture of lilies for cut flowers     Lilies for cut flowers are given the same general culture as potted plants. Plant bulbs in 46-inch-deep boxes or directly in the bench spaced 4 by 5 inches. For continuous production throughout the season, plant every 2 weeks. Easter lilies flower in 3 months or less from planting since they have usually had maximum precooling. L. speciosum and L. auratum, at 600F, bloom 4J/2~-5*/2 months after planting. Mid-century hybrid garden lilies flower in about 3 months. The latter 3 have the same general culture as Easter lilies. With proper storage to assure a continuous supply of bulbs, cut lilies can be produced on a year-round schedule.     Preventive control program     Use well-drained new or sterilized soil mix for potting. Carefully follow recommendations under "Soil Composition" and "Fertilization Program." Add 1 inch of sterilized gravel to bottom of pots. Sterilize any soil or drainage materials which have been used for previous greenhouse crops. Use new or sterilized pots. Sterilize gravel or cinders on which pots are placed, or set pots directly on new or Cuprinol-treated boards. Sterilize automatic watering equipment. Plant bulbs so that top is Wt to 2 inches under     soil surface to stimulate stem root development. Leave V2 to Va inches between soil surface and top of pot. Ensure adequate air circulation and heat to prevent high relative humidity. If flowering plants are to be stored, follow recommendations given under "Storage of Potted Flowering Lilies." See Cornell Recommendations for Commercial Floriculture Crops, Part II: Disease, Pest, and Weed Control for additional preventive control measures.     References     Easter Lilies The Culture, Diseases, Insects and Economics of Easter Lilies. Editors, R.W. Langhans and D.C. Kiplinger. February 1967. Available from Department of Floriculture and Ornamental Horticulture, Cornell University, Ithaca, New York 14853. $3.00. Make checks payable to Cornell University.     "Leaf Counting and Methods and Schedules for Forcing Easter Lilies." H.F. Wilkins and R.E. Widmcr. Florists\' Review 151, no. 3909 (Nov. 2, 1972): 27-28, 69-70.     "Methods and Schedules for Forcing Easter Lilies  1974." ELF. Wilkins. Florists\' Review 153, no. 3958 (Oct. 4, 1973):34-35.     Cornell Peat-lite Mixes for Commercial Plant Growing. Cornell Information Bulletin 43.     ORCHID     Numerous species of orchids are grown in greenhouses for use as corsages and cut flowers. Limited sale exists lor potted orchids. Cymbidiums, Phalaenopsis, Vanda, and certain other orchids also arc shipped to the United States from Australia, Hawaii, and other distant areas. Orchid production is a highly specialized business; only an outline of cultural recommendations is possible in this publication.     Varieties     Species and cultivars of the following genera comprise the majority of orchids grown commercially: Cat t leva, Cymbidiu m, Paph iopedilu m (Cypripediu m), Phaiaen ops is, Vanda. Hybrids and selections are tot) numerous to describe here.     Propagation     Orchids are propagated primarily by seed, metistem culture, divisions, and offsets. Propagation procedures are extremely complex; see "References."     Light intensity     Cattleya:  shade from March 1 to October 1 5.     Cymhidium: full sunlight, some shade required in late spring for plants in flower.     Paphiopedilum (Cypripedium); shade from February 1 to November 15.     49     
    
chla7134041_1971_1_49

END OF IMAGE INFO
49
0050
00000050.jpg

     
     ORCHID - PANSY - POINSETTIA     High light intensity may bleach or bum foliage as a result of excessive water loss, but flowering is improved.     Temperature     Cattleya seedlings are grown at 700-720F, mature plants at 6G0~-650F. Cymbidium initiates and develops* buds below 650 F. The plants of Cymbidium are moved outdoors aftet danger of frost, but must be watered frequently to prevent burn. Paphiopedilum initiates buds below 600 F\\ but develops buds faster at 650 F after initiation.     Soil composition     Cattleya grows well in a mixture of perlite and one or more of the following: fir bark, redwood fiber, peat moss. Various bark materials especially fir bark arc substituted for Osrnunda fiber. Cymbidium and Paphiopedilum are grown in combinations of redwood fiber, fir bark, and perlite. Do not pack media more than necessary.     Fertilization program     Use nutrient levels given on page 14. Fertilize Cattleya with a complete soluble fertilizer when growth starts. Fertilizer schedules vary with the growing medium and frequency of watering. Use pH of 5.5 to 6.5, and keep soluble salts readings below I 50 Kx  10" 5 .     Water     Keep media moist, especially during the active growing season. Adequate watering or misting eliminates leaf burn.     Weed control     See Cornell Recommendations for Commercial Floriculture Crops Part If: Disease, Pest, and Weed Control.     Preventive control program     Use memtem culture to propagate virus-free seedlings or propagate from healthy plants. Rogue virus-infected plant*. Ensure adequate air circulation and heating to prevent excessive relative humidity.     References     Florist Crop Production and Marketing, chapter 27, **Orehtds.** Kenneth Post. Orange Judd Publishing Co., Inc. 1949. (Out of print hut available on loan from your Cooperative Extension agent.)     Handbook on Orchids. Plants mul Gardens* new series vol. 23* no. 2. 1967. Available from Brooklyn Botanic Garden, 1000 Washington Avenue, Brooklyn, New York 1 1225. SL25.     PANSY     See "Annuals and Bedding Plants**, page 26,     POINSETTIA     Euphorbia pulcherrima     Poinsettias are the major potted plant grown for Christmas. Improved varieties with superior leaf and bract retention have increased poinsettia popularity in recent years.     Varieties     Commercial poinsettia varieties are classified into 4 series:     Annette Hegg series. Selections of a Norwegian variety which respond well to production as branched, multi-flowered plants or as single-stem plants. Varieties include:     \'Annette Hegg\'  the original red variety of the series.     \'Annette Hegg Supreme*  a brilliant red selection of \'Annette Hegg*     \'Dark Red Annette Hegg*  a dark red sport of \'Annette Hegg*     \'Lady Hegg*  an earlier-blooming sport of \'Dark Red Annette Hegg\'     \'White Annette Hegg\'  a white sport of vAnnette Hegg*     \'Pink Annette Hegg*  a pink sport of \'Annette Hegg*     \'Marble Hegg\'  a bicolor or variegated sport of \'Annette Hegg\'     \'Annette Hegg Diva\'  a brick red sport of \'Annette Hegg*; blooms about 1 week earlier than \'Dark Red Annette Hegg\' when grown at the same night temperature, but blooms about the same time when grown 10F lower.     Eckespoint Series. This series has resulted from the poinsettia breeding efforts of Paul Ecke Poinsettias, Encinitas, California. Characterized by large, wide, long-lasting bracts, the series can be grown single stem or branched, multiflowered. Key varieties in the series are: \'Eckespoint C-l Red\' - the original red seedling of the     series \'Eckespoint C-l  Pink\'- a pink sport of \'Eckespoint     C-l Red\' \'Eckespoint C-l White\' - a white sport of \'Eckespoint     C-l Red \'Eckespoint C-l  Marble* - a bicolor, variegated sport \'Eckespoint D-7 White* - a white seedling with good     plant conformation \'Eckespoint Scarlet Ribbons\' (H2) - a very early red;     a short grower which can be grown at lower night     temperature than \'Eckespoint C1*. \'Eckespoint   Reddy  Light* (H15)  an early red; a     medium tall grower which can be grown at lower     night temperature than * Eckespoint C1*. \'Eckespoint Prof.  Laurie Pink* (H-30) - a tall pink     cultivar which can be grown at lower night temperature than \'Eckespoint C 1*.     Mikkelsen Series, The basic variety in the series is \'Paul Mikkelsen\',   Introduced   in   1963   by  James   Mikkelsen,     50     
    
chla7134041_1971_1_50

END OF IMAGE INFO
50
0051
00000051.jpg

     
     POINSETTIA     Ashtabula, Ohio, this variety was the first to have long-lasting bracts and foliage and sturdy stems. It revolutionized the poinsettia crop. Key varieties in the series are:     Taul Mikkelsen*  the original red seedling of the series \'Mikkelpink*  a pink sport of Taul Mikkelsen\' \'Mikkelwhite1  a white sport of Taul Mikkelsen\' \'Mikkel Rochford\'  a dark red, self-branching selection \'Mikkel Scandia\'  a dark red, self-branching selection \'Mikkeldawn\'  a bicolor or variegated sport of Taul Mikkelsen\'     USDA Series. The United States Department of Agriculture plant breeders are doing basic studies with poinsettias and have introduced several varieties to the trade including:     * Rudolph\' has large, deep-red bracts, compact heads, strong stems and produces an excellent pinched plant.     4Red Baron" has large, very clear, bright red bracts, is medium tali, pinches well and has strong, stiff stems.     \'Snowflake\' has very clear white, partially upright bracts, somewhat smaller than \'Snowcap\', dark green entire leaves, stiff stems, and compact growth; takes 3 or 4 days longer to root than other white varieties.     Two recent USDA introductions, \'Ruff and Reddy\' and Truly Pink\', although grown commercially by some producers, likely will have greatest use by commercial poinsettia breeders in the development of improved commercial varieties.     \'Ruff and Reddy\' is a brilliant red, vigorous, compact plant which is not self-branching but pinches well and has stiff, upright stems. Resistant to air pollution injury, it is a tough, easy-to-grow, long-lasting variety which blooms with or a little before \'Annette Hegg\' and *Mikkel Rochford\'. Truly Pink\' has smooth, upright, deep salmon-pink bracts, produces a large plant, pinches very well, has strong stems, and is an excellent keeper. It is genetically pink in all tissue and will produce pink progeny.     Other varieties. \'Small\'s Winter Flame\' was selected by a Florida producer, is early blooming, and has bright red bracts, compact plant shape, and sturdy stems.     Propagation     Poinsettias for Christmas sale arc grown from cuttings propagated in August and September, Producers can buy unrooted, callused, or rooted cuttings or started plants in small pots from poinsettia specialists; some produce their own cuttings from stock plants started in March through June from cuttings obtained from specialists. In addition to finished plants, some growers produce cuttings and small plants for September sale to other growers.     Stock plant culture.   Rooted cuttings or started plants from the specialist are planted immediately on receipt in either large containers or beds. Container size or spacing in beds is determined by the planting date. See table 15. Use soil mixes, nutrient levels, and fertilization programs     Table 15.    Stock plant bench spacing and container size guidelines     MonthBenchesContainers     plantedMinimumSq ft/MinimumFinal     spacingplan tdiameterspacing     March18"x 18"2.2512"18"x 18"     April15"x 15"1.5510"15"x 15"     May12"x 12"1.08"12"x 12"     June8" x   8"0.446"8"x    8"     SOURCE: Adapted from The Poinsettia Manual, Paul Eekc Poinsettias, Encinitas, California.     recommended elsewhere in this section. Apply a fungicidal drench at planting; see Cornell Recommendations for Commercial Floriculture Crops, Part II: Disease, Pest, and Weed Control. Grow at 650F nights, 800~850F days. Give medium shade during period when liners are becoming established. Light tor 4 hours in the middle of the night until May 15 to prevent flower initiation. Once established, soft pinch to remove tip and one fully expanded leaf. Pinch in this way again when new shoot growth has at least 4 fully expanded, as opposed to thin, light-colored leaves. Procedures for estimating number of stock plants needed to produce required numbers of cuttings and more detailed information on slock plant management are outlined in The Poinsettia Manual, See "References." Maintain stock plants free of insects through a regular spray program. See Cornell Recommendations for Commercial Floriculture Crops, Part II: Disease, Pest, and Weed Control.     Rooting cuttings. Cuttings are taken mid-July through late September depending on type of finished crop to be grown. Earliest propagations should be used for branched plants or large single-stem plants. These propagations may produce split tips unless pinched. Cuttings should have at least 3 mature leaves. Allow all leaves to remain on cuttings. Sterile conditions and handling throughout propagation, from the time cuttings are removed from stock plants until they are placed in finishing pots, are essential. Cuttings should never be under moisture stress once they are removed from the stock plant. Special care is necessary during cutting collection to prevent wilting. Taking cuttings in the early morning or evening is ideal. Cuttings can be rooted in a propagation bench, in small pots, or directly in finishing pots. Bottom heat of 700 720 F, air temperature of 600F nights, 700F days, and mist propagation are essential. See "Fertilization Programs\'* for propagation fertilization recommendations.     Direct rooting in the finishing pots is a labor-efficient method which reduces the production schedule by about I week. Uniform finished plants result if care is taken to select uniform cuttings of the same age, that is, from shoots of equal length, and to plant them at the same depth, Place cuttings in preformed holes; do not force into soil mix. Do not water in cuttings; instead place the pots immediately under mist. Provide uniform bottom heat and     51     
    
chla7134041_1971_1_51

END OF IMAGE INFO
51
0052
00000052.jpg

     
     POINSETTIA     mist coverage to ensure equal rate of rooting. Use same soil mix as for finished crops. Sec "Soil Composition/\'     Mist is gradually reduced about 15 days after sticking, the timing based on grower\'s judgement of root development. A regular fertilization program is begun at this time.     For cuttings not planted directly in finishing pans, stick, in any propagation bench medium that is sterile and well drained. Peat* pots and media blocks are satisfactory containers for rooting.     Light intensity     Under high light conditions, newer varieties do not develop desirable rich, deep green leaf color. Apparently, they require reduced light intensity to prevent \'bleaching\', particularly during brighter parts of the growing period. Lightly shade glass during propagation and after first panning in September and early October. By mid-October light intensity is naturally low enough so that shading is not necessary.     Day-length response     The poinsettia is a short-day plant and initiates flower buds when days are I 2l4- 1 3 hours in length (11-12-hour nights). This day length occurs in the northern United Slates in early September. For flower bud and bract development subsequent to initiation, a shorter day (or longer night) is necessary. When days are artificially shortened by the use of black cloth, a 15-hour night is recommended, that is, shade from 5:00 P.M. to 8:00 A.M. Under long-day conditions, the poinsettia remains vegetative. Production schedules recommended for the new cultivars generally do not require day-length control procedures, that is, lighting and black-cloth shading. However, the grower who has special problems with outside light sources at night may need to control day length artificially. Also, growers can manipulate day length to bring crops in earlier and to time them more precisely. Specific recommendations for photo-period control of poinsettias are available from your Cooperative Extension agent. If you have experienced difficulty in liming poinsettias without the use of lights and (or) black cloth, use these guidelines for New York State:     At Ithaca* flower buds initiate in the Eckc series September 20 25. To time them for Christmas, provide a minimum of 10 footcandles of incandescent light for 2 hours in the middle of the night from September 20 to October 10. See page 6   for technique.     The Annette Hegg series And the Paul Mikkelsen series should be lighted September I through October 1. Do not light alter October 1. Use the same intensity and technique as for the Ecke series.     The USDA series generally has the same photoperiod requirement* as the Paul Mikkelsen series.     Immediately following long-day treatment, provide temperatures recommended for bud initiation and cover plants with black cloth from 5 P.M. to 8 A.M. for 2 weeks to ensure short days for bud initiation. Where outside light sources create artificially long days, use black cloth from     the time bud initiation is desired until Thanksgiving. After Thanksgiving some light during the dark period will not upset flowering.     Temperature     General temperatures recommended for poinsettias are 650F nights and 700 750F days. But with today\'s precise production regimes, specific temperatures must be prescribed for each variety and for each stage of development; it is not possible to specify these here. Your Cooperative Extension agent or poinsettia supplier can aid you in planning temperatures for specific varieties and production programs. Suppliers have recently introduced varieties that can be produced at temperatures 1050F lower than those for the usual varieties.     Generally, late propagations need 650680F nights. When pushing a crop that is behind schedule, night temperatures above 800 F may delay rather than speed the crop. Day temperatures up to 800 F hasten maturity and can be used if weather is clear and light intensity, good.     Soil composition     The soil mix must be porous, well drained, and sterile to help prevent root rot. See page 12. Peat-lite mixes are excellent for poinsettias; a special Mix A for potted crops is given in table 4, page 13. See also Cornell Information Bulletin 43, Cornell Peat-lite Mixes for Commercial Plant Growing.     Fertilization program     These recommended nutrient levels (Spurway) should be maintained:     Nitrates (N03 )                                     40-60 ppm     Phosphorus (P)                                       6 10 ppm     Potash (K)                                             40-60 ppm     Calcium (Ca)                                     150-200 ppm     pH                                                       5.5-6.8*     Total soluble salts         Soil   mixes      less   than     lOOKx 10"5 Peat-lite mixes  less than 200Kx 10"5     ?Before the availability of benomyl fungicide, there was no effective control for Thielaviopsis root rot other than soil sterilization, a complete sanitation program, and adjustment of soil pH to 5.05.5, a range at which the disease was effectively controlled. However, soil sterilization, complete sanitation, and the use of benomyl soil drenches as recommended in Cornell Recommendations for Commercial Floriculture Crops, Part II: Diseases, Pest, and Weed Control should provide satisfactory Thielaviopsis control and not necessitate pH adjustment. If Thielaviopsis continues as a serious problem in spite of recommended control measures, it may be necessary to adjust the pH of the medium to 5.0-5.5 and to substitute gypsum for ground limestone to supply calcium.                                            [     Adequate poinsettia fertilization must begin with stock plants and continue through propagation and final produc-     52     
    
chla7134041_1971_1_52

END OF IMAGE INFO
52
0053
00000053.jpg

     
     POINSETTIA     tion if quality plants are to be grown. Once light green or yellow basal leaves develop from poor nutrition, it is difficult to regain dark green color. Fertilization programs for each stage of production follow.     Fertilization during propagation. Fertilization of the crop begins in the propagation bench. Fertilizer injected into the mist gives higher-quality, better-rooted plants. Two oz of potassium nitrate plus 3 oz of calcium nitrate per 100 gal of mist water will produce dark green, succulent cuttings. If you are not equipped to apply fertilizer through the mist system, your regular liquid fertilization program using V4-strength dilutions can be initiated 57 days after benching or when roots first emerge. Fertilization programs for cuttings stuck directly in finishing pans should begin about 15 days after sticking. Use ^-strength dilutions (150 ppm N and 150 ppm K) for the first application.     Fertilization for newly panned plants. Use ^-strength solution (150 ppm N and 150 ppm K) for the first application. After 57 days in the pans, the plants go on a regular fertilization program.     Fertilization for stock plants and established plants. Fertilization should begin immediately after potting or panning and continue on a regular basis until sale. Use one of these programs: at every watering apply 292 ppm N and 252 ppm K solution made by mixing 9 oz of potassium nitrate and 17 oz of calcium nitrate per 100 gal water, or fertilize once a week with 393 ppm N and 336 ppm K solution made by mixing 12 oz potassium nitrate and 22 oz calcium nitrate per 100 gal water. In either program, Peters\' Compound 111 should be added at label rates. If growing conditions are optimum, supplemental fertilization may be necessary under either program.     Molybdenum deficiency     Recently a condition suspected to be a molybdenum deficiency has been observed in poinsettias. Chlorosis of the top half of the plant, both upward and downward leaf cupping, and eventual scorching of leaf margins are symptoms. Caution: Since ammonium nitrogen toxicity symptoms are very similar to those of molybdenum deficiency, consult your Cooperative Extension agent for aid in identifying the problem before you apply any molybdenum treatments. If molybdenum deficiency has been a problem in previous years or if it is diagnosed early in production, molybdenum can be supplied through your regular fertilization program. See table 10 for directions. If you have not made regular molybdenum applications through your fertilization program and molybdenum deficiency is diagnosed during crop development, a one-appli-cation-only corrective drench as prescribed in table 10 can be made up to the third week in November.     Table 16.    Application rates for dilute Cycocel solution for poinsettias.     iSo     il moisture     Pot diameter (inches)     Fluid oz of     dilute solution     per pot     No. of pots treated     2K*-3 4     5 6     8     640 425 300 200 150     Poinsettias   require   ample   water  for  quality  growth. Automatic watering systems are effective.     *Two applications necessary for 2lA" pots. The second application is usually applied after the 2^4" potted plants have been panned into larger pots.     Growth regulators     Both Cycocel and ancymidol (ARest) are effective growth regulators for poinsettias. Both are registered for use on the crop.     Cycocel shortens plants, strengthens stems, and intensifies the green color of foliage and red color of bracts. Although it is recommended for use on red varieties only, \'Snowflake\' is a white variety which will respond favorably.     Cycocel can be applied as either a soil drench or a foliar spray.     For soil drench application: Mix 1 qt of Cycocel (11.8%) in 10 gal water and apply as a uniform soil drench as prescribed in table 16.     Treat August propagations in early to mid-September; do not treat plants in 2V4- to 3-inch pots after September 15. Early treated 2lA- to 3-inch pots may require a second treatment after panning. Do not treat pans after October 15. Use on a trial basis first time to gain experience.     For foliar application: Treat preferably by October 15 and definitely before November 1. Apply spray to top side of all leaves of each plant. Ensure that plants have had a good supply of water during the previous 8 hours, and that conditions exist for rapid drying of the spray once applied. Avoid wetting the foliage for 24 hours following spraying to permit maximum absorption of the chemical. The typical concentration for sprays applied in August and September is 3000 ppm and 1500 ppm for October sprays. Instructions for preparing these concentrations are on the Cycocel label. Leaf yellowing and burning may result from foliar applications; test spray a few plants. A wetting agent in Cycocel solution is reported to reduce or eliminate foliar injury.     Ancymidol (A- Rest), a recently available growth regulator, effectively suppresses poinsettia plant height. Apply as a soil drench to established poinsettias when soil mix is moist. The manufacturer recommends treatment of plants at pinch to 4 weeks after pinch or 8- 12 weeks before the crop finishes. Use rates and instructions on the label. Experience and research with ancymidol are sufficient to warrant trial use. Do not treat an entire crop until you gain experience with the chemical.     53     
    
chla7134041_1971_1_53

END OF IMAGE INFO
53
0054
00000054.jpg

     
     POINSETTIA- ROSE     Production programs     The advent ot\\an entirely new array of more vigorous and durable poinseiiia varieties, many of which branch freely, has revolutionized poinsetiia production programs. Whereas the majority of the crop formerly was grown "straight up**, that is, single stem, producers now have the opportunity to produce multibranched, mulliflowered plants as well. The diversity of varieties available and the wide differences in their response to environmental conditions make it necessary for producers to tailor production programs on the basis of market demand, varieties grown, geographical area, and environmental control capabilities ol sped lie greenhouse facilities. Consult your Cooperative Extension agent and your poinscttia supplier/specialist for detailed programs of production requirements and time schedules for specific varieties.     Preventive control program     A preventive approach to poinsettia diseases is a must. Because a number of pesticide treatments are essential steps in this approach, the preventive control program is detailed in Cornell Recommendations for Commercial Floriculture Crops, Part II: Disease, Pest, and Weed Control. Review this program before planning your poinsetiia production.     References     The Poinsettia  Manual.   Paul Kcke Poinsettias, Encinilas, California 92024.     ROSE     Rosa hybrida     Cut roses, the third most important flower crop in the United States, are generally produced by a few specialized rose growers with large operations. Potted roses for spring holidays area minor crop grown by potted-plant producers.     Potted Roses     Hybrid tea roses, polyantha, and miniature roses are grown as potted plants for spring holidays and for May and June sale for garden use. Your supplier can recommend varieties.     For spring holidays: Pot plants about 3 months before holiday sales and 2 months before May-June garden sales. Use soil mix given on page 12. Prune to 6 to 10 inches; pruning to the lower height produces longer but fewer Dowering stems. Water thoroughly and place in 500F storage or greenhouse lor 2 weeks. Then move to 600 620F greenhouse. Begin regular fertilization program to maintain nutrient levels recommended under "Fertilization Program** when growth is 2 trtthes long. Time to bloom is controlled by temperature and pinching. Hybrid tea roses show color 7 to 10 days before sale if pinched 6 to 7 weeks be-     fore sale. Polyanthas and miniatures show color 10 to 14 days before sale if pinched 8 to 9 weeks before Easter and 7 to 8 weeks before Mother\'s Day. Plants which do not flower for the desired sales time can be pruned to the first 2 vigorous 5-leaftlet leaves; they will flower 6 weeks later.     Roses for Cut Flowers     Varieties     Many varieties of hybrid tea and floribunda roses have been selected for greenhouse production. Choice of varieties is determined by market demand and grower experience.     Propagation     Rose growers generally purchase field-grown budded rose plants from several major plant producers.     Light intensity     Full light is recommended for roses. Light shade can be used in the spring and summer principally to reduce heat from the sun. Where greenhouse cooling is used, full sunlight is recommended. Greenhouse glass should be kept clean to permit as much light as possible to enter.     Supplementary lighting     Supplementary lighting for roses using high intensity discharge (HID) lamps is presently being researched at Cornell. The preliminary results have indicated great potential for increasing winter flower production. Contact your Cooperative Extension agent for the latest research \'findings and recommendations.     Day-length response     There is no apparent response to photoperiod.     Temperature     A range of 600 to 620 F is most satisfactory. Some varieties can be grown a few degrees warmer, others a few degrees cooler. Some growers who inject carbon dioxide permit temperatures to go to 800-850F on bright days before ventilating. Avoid excessively high temperatures.     Soil composition     Use a well-drained, porous soil. Because soils are fitted only every 4 or 5 years when a crop is replanted, soil preparation should get special attention. A mixture of 3 parts composted sandy loam, 2 peat moss, and 1 perlite or sand is a widely used medium. At least 50% by volume should be soil.     Fertilization program                                                                ^     Nutrient levels can be carried somewhat higher than for general crops: N03t 25-100 ppm, P, 4-6 ppm, and K,     54     
    
chla7134041_1971_1_54

END OF IMAGE INFO
54
0055
00000055.jpg

     
     ROSE - SNAPDRAGON     3035   are  recommended  with emphasis on  the higher     ounts. Keep soluble salts readings under 150 *K x 10"5;     intain pH 5.57.0.     Only very small amounts of micronutrients are required. These can be incorporated in regular applications of liquid fertilizer. See table 10. For prevention and correction of deficiencies, the following materials are used:     Iron  once a year, apply either iron sulfate at 1 lb per 100 sq ft or chelated iron (10% Fe) at 2 oz per 100 sq     ^Boron  apply a boron fertilizer as prescribed in table 10. Apply no more than 1 oz per 100 sq ft per year.     Magnesium  supplied in dolomitic limestone, or 1 application per year of magnesium sulfate (Epsom salt) at 2 lb per 100 sq ft.     Water     Use of new, more vigorous varieties and the tendency to grow at higher temperatures and more favorable environmental conditions, in general, emphasize the need for careful management of watering. More frequent watering may be necessary. Soil preparation to ensure good drainage and water-holding capacity is essential.     Carbon dioxide     Increased carbon dioxide levels in roses have been re-     Krted to increase total production, and produce longer ms and heavier plants with less blind wood. Some problems reportedly associated with adding carbon dioxide are reduced keeping quality and boron deficiency. It is the consensus that plants grown in carbon dioxide enriched air need more fertilizer because they grow faster. See "Temperature." Consult your Cooperative Extension agent if you plan to use carbon dioxide. See "Carbon Dioxide," page 18.     Preventive control program     Set plants with bud or graft just above soil line in a well-drained sterilized soil mix. Avoid syringing if possible; if not possible, do it in the morning of a bright day and dry plants rapidly. Heat at least 1 hour before sunset and provide adequate ventilation. Use insect, disease, and weed preventive programs prescribed in Cornell Recommenda-     Bms for Commercial Floriculture Crops, Part II: Disease, st, and Weed Control.     References     j Hoses, A Manual on the Culture, Management, Diseases, J Insects, Economics and Breeding of Greenhouse Roses. I John W. Mastalerz and Robert W. Langhans, editors. \' 1969. Available from Department of Floriculture and ^Ornamental   Horticulture,   Cornell   University,  Ithaca,     New   York   14853.   $4.00.   Make   checks  payable  to     Cornell Universitv.     "HID Lights for Roses." R.W. Langhans, J.G. Seeiey, and P.A. Hammer. Florists* Revieiv 152, no. 3952 (Aug. 30, 1973):22.     "Economic Analysis of the Use of High Intensity Discharge Lamps in Rose Production." D.L. Good, D.C. Goodrich, Jr., and R.W. Langhans. Florists\' Revieiv 153, no. 3961 (Nov. 2, 1973): 34-35, 67-72.     SNAPDRAGON     A n tirrh in u m ma jus     Snapdragons are grown for cut flowers. Because they do not ship well, they tend to be produced near market.     Varieties     Snapdragon varieties are classified in response groups based on their optimum ilowering period. Although seed suppliers use somewhat different terms for their classifications, figure 6 summarizes the variety situation.     Ill     Response group Response group Response group     I     II III     (winter)     (fall-spring)     (summer)     Nov. 1April 30     May 1- June 30     Sept. 1-  Oct. 31     July i-   Aug. 3 1     Figure 6.    Snapdragon response groups.     Selection of proper varieties is important to the success of the crop. Work closely with your seedsman for this purpose.     Propagation     Germinate seed in a sterile medium under fluorescent light at 700F. This treatment speeds germination and growth and improves seedling quality and uniformity. Snapdragon seedlings can be held in storage for up to 6 weeks. See "Annuals and Bedding Plants," page 26, for recommendations for germination and storage procedures.     Temperature     Grow seedlings at 600F and under fluorescent light for 30 days after transplanting from seed pan to speed development. Snapdragons are usually grown at 500 F; but by proper selection of varieties, control of photoperiod, and     55     
    
chla7134041_1971_1_55

END OF IMAGE INFO
55
0056
00000056.jpg

     
     SNAPDRAGON - STEPHANOTIS - STOCK     use of carbon dioxide, 600 F can be used. Higher temperatures speed development but reduce grade. Summer varieties grow well in spite of higher temperatures. Sudden drops in temperature cause floret "skips" in the spike. Fan and pad greenhouse cooling is recommended for year-round snapdragon production.     Soil composition. Use soil recommendations on page 12.     Fertilization program     Maintain nutrient levels and pH recommended on page 14. Constant fertilization program is very effective. Snapdragons, especially in the seedling stage, are very sensitive to high soluble salts; keep levels below a reading of 125 K x  10* s.     Boron deficiency may occur in snapdragons. It is corrected by application of a boron fertilizer as prescribed in table 10. Do not apply more than a total of 1 oz per 100 sq ft of bench area per year.     Water     An automatic watering system maintains uniform moisture. Drying checks growth severely; overwatering creates conditions ideal for root rot.     Carbon dioxide     Researchers And growers report that snapdragons respond to carbon dioxide enrichment of the greenhouse air with larger flower spikes, earlier bloom, and thicker stems which are not hollow. Your Cooperative Extension agent can give recommendations for the use of carbon dioxide.     Preventive control program     Steam soil and provide good soil aeration and drainage. Provide adequate air circulation and humidity control at all times. Sanitation is important.     References     Snapdragons, A Manual of Culture, Insects, and Diseases, and Economics, R.W. Langhans, editor. 1962. Available from Department of Floriculture and Ornamental Horticulture, Cornell University, Ithaca, New York 14853. $3*00. Make checks payable to Cornell University.     STEPHANOTIS     Stephanotis floribunda                               i     The fragrant, long-lasting flowers of this vigorous vine are used in corsages and wedding bouquets. Growers often plant tubs or boxes of it in corridors and other greenhouse areas too small for other crops. Stephanotis blooms at a minimum temperature of 650 F and during long days. Natural flowering occurs May through October. For winter bloom, prune in early July and use 6 hours of light of 10 footcandle minimum intensity in the middle of the night September 15 through March 15. General soil mixture and nutrient recommendations given on page 12 are satisfactory. Use pH 5.06.0. Water liberally. Provide support for twining vines. Grow in full sunlight.     STOCK     Mathiola incana     Once widely grown in northern greenhouses, stock is only rarely produced now. The market is supplied by outdoor production shipped from southern California and Arizona.     Culture     Stocks are grown from seed and transplanted to benches. Use germination procedures recommended on page 26. Stocks require full light intensity.     Cultivars differ in temperature requirement. Short, branched, early-flowering cultivars suitable as garden flowers and sometimes cut flowers, such as *7-Week White* and * 10-Week Dwarf*, flower without cold treatment. But column stocks (nonbranching, florist varieties) require, for flower-bud initiation, temperatures below 600 F after the plants have 10 or more fully developed leaves. At this stage, give at least 3 weeks at 500 F nights and 600 F days to cause plants to set flowers. Thereafter, temperatures 50 70 warmer will speed flower development. Buds will not form if plants receive 650 F for more than 6 hours per day. Manage fertilization as recommended on page 14. Potassium deficiency is common; it shows as dry, brown burning of older leaf margins.     56     
    
chla7134041_1971_1_56

END OF IMAGE INFO
56
0003
00000003.jpg

     
     Introduction      A        Change   is a constant  companion  of the  nonbusiness     manager! The swiftly moving developments in the legislative, environmental, and safety aspects of pesticide usage couple with a burgeoning production technology to present the manager with a continuing array of new information to be assimilated and applied. In our advanced state of floriculture science and technology, the manager may no longer enjoy the luxury of being merely generally     jHj knowledgeable in crop production and pest control. Instead, he must have precise, detailed information. And he must develop a communication system which ensures that he and his employees receive regular updating on new research and industry developments.     Change is also a constant companion of the authors .\'I this publication. Throughout its 20-year history, the purpose of Cornell Recommendations for Commercial Floriculture Crops has been to provide technical floriculture production information based on research findings and proven industry practices. The change to the 2-volume format, that is. Part I: Cultural Practices and Production Programs and Part II: Disease, Pest, and Weed Control, reflects our need for greater flexibility to allow us to communicate more quickly new and more detailed information to industry managers .tnd to those who advise them.     As new varieties and cultivars proliferate, each with ipe-      cific cultural requirements, limitations of space and the lack of sufficient comprehensive research for each of the cultivars require that we make increasing reference to the excellent manuals and other publications issued by the specialists and suppliers of each of the crops. Hence, tin-Reference section under our recommendations for spec ih] crops assumes new importance.     Cornell Recommendations for Commercial Floriculture Crops is but one link in the chain ol information sources available to the nonbusiness manage i. Commercial publications, Cooperative Extension bulletins, the various state flower growers associations  and  their publications, anil a vigorous trade press all ensure a current and effective flow nl information to the manager. Competent consultants are available   among  Cooperative   Extension  agents,  college faculty,  and  commercial  sales and technical  rep resents lives.   | he  challenge   to   the floribusiness manager is to ]gnixe these knowledge sources as another essentia] pai t |^ nl   the   total   array   ol   resources  which   he   must  use and ^^   in m ,_(  as he pursues his business objectives.     How to Use This Publication     With this edition, Cornell Recommendations for Commercial Floriculture (               printed in 2 volumes: Part I: Cultural /^radices and Production I\'rograms\'ltnd Part II: *\\\'\' ease. Pest, end Wet              rol. The 2 volumes"are in-%J tended as companion pieces, and a grower will want ti] keep them filed together, preferably in a notebook, for ready reference.     INTRODUCTION - HOW TO USE THIS PUBLICATION     Floriculture, ornamental horticulture, entomology and plant pathology research facilities at the New York State College of Agriculture and Life Sciences, Cornell University, Ithaca, New York. In the foreground is Morrison Hall, the animal science building. Across the street from Mor rison are left to right separated by driveways, the insectary and entomology research facilities including the William Blauvelt Laboratory,- the Kenneth Post Laboratory, and floriculture and ornamental horticulture greenhouses; the plant pathology research facilities including the A.W. Dimock Laboratory.     This  publication  is  intended  foi   use both as  pro     \'In......i planning guide and as i read) reference handbook     for production information required few da) to-da) tion. A manager planning i produi tion program foi   rop should first study the discussion ol the crop in Pari I undei Itural Recommendations foi Specifii Crops." Here In-will find current infotmation on the majoi varieties ol the crop, discussion ol the influence of specific environmental i.u tins (]n the drop, and cultural aspects ol disease and insect preventive programs. He should then comuh eral Recommendations" in Pari   I  im   more complete     ilisiiissn.il   nl   each   "I   the  environmental   factors  and   foi     spceilii   rates "l  fertilixer* and growth regulators  i" be     used.     \\ managei  desiring to determine the control measure lot i \' intent               lisease, oi weed problem will find the     information in Pari 11 under the specific crop. He vmII also     find information mi insect, disease-, and weed control programs, pesticide rates .mil applii ation hi hniques, and pesticide safety and tust aid recommendations in the gi     3     
    
chla7134041_1971_1_3

END OF IMAGE INFO
3
0004
00000004.jpg

     
     HOW IS YOUR BUSINESS IMAGE?     section ol Pari 11. Preventive control programs, which prescribe the cultural practices that help prevent pest problems as well as preventive pesticide treatments, are outlined for each crop in Part II.     A manager may wish to encourage his employees to become familiar with the publication as a reference handbook for answering routine questions of application rates, soil-mix ingredients, and similar topics. This publication mav also serve .is a training aid for new or inexperienced employees.     More detailed discussions of many aspects of crop production are given in textbooks, bulletins, and manuals published by universities, Cooperative Extension, flower growers associations, and commercial firms. Manuals are cited in crop sections. Standard floriculture texts include:     the Ball Red Book, 12th edition, George J. Ball Company, Inc., West Chicago, Illinois 60185.     Commercial Flower Forcing, 7th edition, Alex Laurie, D.C Kiplinger, and Kcnnard S. Nelson, McGraw-Hill Book Company, New York, New York, 1968.     Flower   and    Plant   Production   in    the   Greenhouse, Kennard S. Nelson, The Interstate Printers and Publishers, Inc., Danville, Illinois,  1966. This is a handbook (or students and others interested in the basics commercial floriculture.     Management for Flower and Plant Production, Kennard S. .Nelson, The Interstate Printers and   Publishers.   Inc.,   Danville.   Illinois,   1973.  The     k    is    written    from   a   greenhouse   production management   viewpoint   rather  than with  the usual     p technology orientation. Allied activities in the areas of business management, greenhouse engineering, and crop marketing also are disi ussed.     Florist Crop Production and Marketing. Kenneth Post,     nge Judd Publishing Company, New York, New     York,   1949.    Out  of print but  available in libraries     and most Cooperative Extension offices, this text is     valuable primarily for basic information rather than     i urrent recommendations.     I he Retail Florist Business, revised edition, Peter Pfahl, The Interstate Printers and Publishers, Inc., Danville, Illn                       be hook serves as a complete guide to     the management and operation ot | retail flower shop. Starting and .Managing a Retail Flower Shop, Paul R. Krone, Small Business Administration, I he Starting and Managing Scries, Volume 18, Washington, D.C, 1970. 55 cents.     New   N                                I are directed to discussions in     tHe   New   York   State   Flower   Growers   Bulletin   and  its     . the Mlt*  York State Flower Industries Bulletin.      u do not have a file set, copies []f specific issues  ire     ible from the Department ol  floriculture and Orna-     mental Horticulture, Cornell University, Ithaca, New York 14850. Cornell extension bulletins arc available from your Cooperative Extension agent or Mailing Room, Building 7, Cornell Research Park, Ithaca, New York 14850.     Additional Assistance Is Available from Your Cooperative Extension Agent     Information and educational programs dealing with commercial floriculture crop production are available from your local Cooperative Extension agent, who is a staff member of your County Extension Association and Cooperative Extension, New York. He offers you access to the educational programs and full resources of his office as well as those of the New York State College of Agriculture and Life Sciences, Cornell University Agents can be contacted at the number listed in the telephone directory under either Extension Association, Agricultural Division, for example, Erie County Extension Association, Agricultural Division; or Cooperative Extension Association, for example, Cooperative Extension Association of Suffolk Countv.     How Is Your Business Image?     The physical appearance of your firm\'s business premises says much to potential customers. Further, each flori-businessman\'s operation represents his industry to his neighbors and to the public in general. Which image does your business project?     This?     jBBSSSSSSSSSSSSSjS;^*f                                                              ^-.     *JteJL#Jt^Jfrtt^fr    la.     Or this?     
    
chla7134041_1971_1_4

END OF IMAGE INFO
4
0057
00000057.jpg

     
     *     Notes     57     
    
chla7134041_1971_1_57

END OF IMAGE INFO
57
0058
00000058.jpg

     
     Notes     *     58     
    
chla7134041_1971_1_58

END OF IMAGE INFO
58
0059
00000059.jpg

     
     Notes     59     
    
chla7134041_1971_1_59

END OF IMAGE INFO
59
0060
00000060.jpg

     
     NEW YORK STATE POISON CONTROL CENTERS     Albany Buffalo New York Rochester Syracuse     Regional Centers     Albany Medical Center Hospital, New Scotland Avenue Western N.Y. Poison Control Center, 21^Bryant Street New York City Department of Health, 455 First Avenue Strong Memorial Hospital, 260 Crittenden Boulevard AX. Silverman Public Health Hospital, 345 Rcnwick Avenue     Emergency Room Franklin F. Dickey Harry W. Raybin, Dir. R.A. Lawrence, M J). Howard L. Weinberger, M JD.     (518)445-3131 (716)878-7000 (212) 340-4494 (716)275-5151 (315)476-3166     Sub-Centers     Btnghamton                    Binghamton General Hospital, Mitchell  Park Streets     Btnghamton                   Our Lady of Lourdes Memorial Hospital, 169 Riverside Drive     Dunkirk                          Brooks Memorial Hospital, 10 West Sixth Street     East Meadow                  Nassau County Medical Center, 2201 Hempstead Turnpike     Elmtra                             Arnot Ogden Memorial Hospital, 1020 Ogden Avenue     Elmira                            St-Joseph\'s Hospital, 555 East Market Street     Endtcott                         Ideal Hospital, 600 High Avenue     Fulton                            A.L, Lee Memorial Hospital, 456 South 4th Street     Ithaca                             Tompkins County Hospital, 1285 Trumansburg Road     Jamestown                     Jamestown General Hospital, 51 Glasgow Avenue     Jamestown                     W.C.A. Hospital, 207 Footc Avenue     Johnson Qty                  Wilson Memorial Hospital, 33-57 Harrison Street     Kingston                         Kingston Hospital, 396 Broadway     Niagara Falls                  Niagara Falls Memorial Medical Center, 621 Tenth Street     Nyack                             Nyack Hospital, North Midland Avenue     Wafsaw                           Wyoming County Community Hospital, 400 North Main Street     Water* own                      House of the Good Samaritan, Washington and Pratt Streets     Emergency Room Richard E. Sullivan, MJ).     Arnold B. Victor, M J).     Howard Mofenson, MJD. Charles H. Kinley, MJD. L. Goldschmidt, M.S., R.Ph. L. Gibbs     Paul A. Hoyt A.B. Broadhead     M.A. Baggiano     M. Withington     Dr. W. Hollenbeck, Dir.     W.E. Askue, MJD.     Glenn Patterson, M.D.     C. Wagenhals, M D. Mrs. C. Butler, R.N. BruceJ.Ebbcls,MJ0.     (607)772-1100 (607) 729-6521 ext. 284 or 285 night ext. 231 (716)366-1111 ext 414 or 415 (516)542-2323 (607) 737-4195 (607) 734-2662 (607)754-7171 ext 66     (315) 592-2224 (607) 274-4383 night 274-4411 (716)484-1161 {716)487-0141 (607)773-6611 (914)331-3131 ext, 250 (716)278-4511 (914) 358-6200 (716) 796-2233 ext. 27 ext. 85 (315) 788-8700     Information on first aid for pesticide poisoning is given in Cornell Recommendations for Commercial Floriculture Crops, Part II: Disease, Pest, and Weed Control Poison Control Centers arc listed on the back covers of this publication and Part II.     Price per copy $1.00     Cooperative Extension, New York State Colleges of Human Ecology and Agriculture and Life Sciences, Cornell University, Ithaca, N.Y., and the U.S. Department of Agriculture cooperating, In furtherance of Acts of Congress May 8, June 30, 1914, and providing eoual opportunities in employment and programs. D.L. Call, Director.            Reprinted with slight revision 1/77   ML   3M   481A     60     
    
chla7134041_1971_1_60

END OF IMAGE INFO
60


END OF DIV1



START OF DIV1 PAGES

Table of Contents
0002
0005
0006
0007
0008
0009
0010
0011
0012
0013
0014
0015
0016
0017
0018
0019
0020
0021
0022
0023
0024
0025
0025
0026
0027
0028
0029
0030
0031
0032
0033
0034
0035
0036
0037
0038
0039
0040
0041
0042
0043
0044
0045
0046
0047
0048
0049
0050
0051
0052
0053
0054
0055
0056
0003
0004
0057
0058
0059
0060


END OF DIV1



START OF DIV1 PAGES

Articles
0005
0006
0007
0008
0009
0010
0011
0012
0013
0014
0015
0016
0017
0018
0019
0020
0021
0022
0023
0024
0025
0025
0026
0027
0028
0029
0030
0031
0032
0033
0034
0035
0036
0037
0038
0039
0040
0041
0042
0043
0044
0045
0046
0047
0048
0049
0050
0051
0052
0053
0054
0055
0056
0003
0004
0057
0058
0059
0060


END OF DIV1



START OF DIV1 PAGES

Non-Article Pages
0003
0004
0057
0058
0059
0060


END OF DIV1


